You can set this title from customizer. You can set this subtitle from customizer. Setting order MobiControl of setting order MobiControl of MobiControl is done in the following order:. 1.. Creating Required any of the connection profile of the following in the case of all of the terminal OS the target premises MobiControl server if only the setting matters iOS devices or macOS computer required to AD_DS between the (Active Directory Domain Service) server, AD_FS in between the (Active Directory Federation Service), between the Azure AD, essential if you want to manage the Windows10 as Windows Modern. The one of the company payment terminal (iOS Android), if you shared by a plurality of employees, mandatory', "2.Apple, Google, or for the purpose of obtaining the following Microsoft administrator for the account of, Apple's site the application of managed Google Play to purchase out of the app from the App Store to set out the authority Apple products that you can sign in to the app catalog If you want to distribute using is, it must be one of the two account of the following", 'However, if you want to set your Android device in the mode of Android Plus, the above account is not required. Use the WNS, when to remotely manage a Windows10 PC 3. along the organization of companies and organizations, hierarchically (input is the main work of the organization name) the terminal group created all of the terminal OS is subject 4. terminal registration the main purpose of to register the rules of creation terminal to a predetermined terminal group is a terminal registration rules. There is a setting options such as the type of authentication and the terminal name of the terminal user. For one of the terminal groups, it can be set of the plurality of terminal registration rules. All of the terminal OS is subject. By the terminal OS, how to create different. 5. Setting on the behavior of the terminal. You could even be changing the setting order of the following items. Configuration profile of creating information leak prevention, WiFi, VPN, e-mail, such as setting all of the terminal OS is targeting all of the terminal OS of the "Advanced" is other than the target terminal registration rules rules of the (application catalog rules, etc.) to create all "behavior set of terminal" of all of the terminal OS the target document terminal OS is with the exception of distribution and installation Apple products to the target application terminal, image, distributed iOS devices and Android devices to the terminal, such as a video of Section 6.5 subject even if you do not have all of the is completed, the registration of the terminal is possible. In addition, after the registration of the terminal, you can add any of the five terms, it can also be changed. All of the terminal OS is the target terminal OS-specific setting method, it will appear menu with the description page by clicking the "Setting" on the left index. It is to set the field of the terminal there is a "Advanced" and "rules" and "configuration profile". For more information, please refer to the. When you create a summary terminal registration rules of registration to the terminal MobiControl server, the "registration ID", "URL for registration" will be generated. By entering the "registration URL" to the browser, the terminal is registered to a predetermined terminal group. In addition, depending on the terminal OS, download MobiControl agent software, also by entering the "registration ID" to this, the terminal is registered to a predetermined terminal group. In the console, you may want to the generation of agent. This time, will also be produced at the same time Setup.INI file. Place the Setup.INI file in the same folder as the agent installer, installing the agent, it will be registered in a predetermined terminal group. By the "registration ID", "URL for registration" or "Setup.INI" file, the terminal, to know the URL of MobiControl the deployment server, and then the available access. Subsequently, the "registration ID", to uniquely corresponding terminal registration rules to the "URL for registration" or "Setup.INI" file, you declare the attribute information, such as its own terminal serial number. For one of the terminal registration rules, registration destination to become "terminal group" of the terminal is one. Terminal registration rules, the attribute information of the terminal, which has been the access, and save it in the folder of "terminal group" given of MobiControl management server. Now, registration of the terminal is complete. With respect to the registration of the terminal, click the "setup and operation of the terminal" of the left index, please refer to the page description. In the following cases, you need to initialize the terminal. By default at the OS level, it will be managed MobiControl. In the case of the following If you want to set your Android device if you want to your iOS device, as, it is required to receive the certification of AD_DS or AD_FS. The Windows 10PC, as Google administrator account If you want to set as the Windows Modern, if you use the managed Google account (On the other hand, if you use a managed GooglePlay account, the authentication of AD_DS or AD_FS is not required. ) Data and to the sending mobile device and the PC of content, you need to send the data and content. In addition, there is also a desire to obtain an in-house content in the operation of the mobile device side. In MobiControl, "File Synchronization Rules", "content library", offers a "intranet gateway". File synchronization rules operation method exchanged between specific folder of the terminal and the server. It is automatically transmitted and received on the basis of the schedule. In the case of iOS, data for which to generate the data or terminal application terminal application is used. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. Any of which content to download or the terminal user. With the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is necessary to upload in advance library. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. In-house file server (repository server), to download and access from the terminal. Without being aware of the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is sufficient to save it to a file server. The specification of as a file server, WebDAV or SharePoint. Can be specified folder under the umbrella of apps that add-on the iOS as a download destination target AndroidWindows system any folder. There is a need to distribute the business application to distribute mobile terminal or a PC app that does not matter the format of the content. As a distribution means of the application, MobiControl is, offers the app catalog and MobiControl package. When you open the app catalog at the terminal, you will see the name and icon of some of the app. These include a link to download the original app Yes stretched. Terminal users, the download / install Select the app. MobiControl package, using, to package the app. In addition to the app installer, you can insert a script command. As a result, the application will allow silent installation. In addition, before and after the installation, you can perform the required operation. For example, you can perform the installation of the previous version of the same app uninstall. On the terminal screen after the installation is complete, you can display a message to that effect. In addition to public application, developed in-house, you can also distribute the app as long as the house. In the table below, and the public application, App Store, Google Play Store, or refers to the application of the Windows Store is the download source. App catalog MobiControl package published application in-house as long as the app download source in the table on the corporate server iOSAndroid PlusAndroid EnterpriseWindows PCWindows EmbeddedLinux, if the background color is yellow, you can silent installation. In the silent installation, it will be downloaded and installed without terminal user operation. It is useful for rapid deployment and version-up of the business application. Silent installation on a Notes application catalog, you must have the application distribution option to "essential". Silent installation on iOS public app, the terminal is monitoring mode, it is when the app is a device type of VPP contract with the App Store. It addressed to Android Enterprise, the application as long as the company, in the managed Google Play Store, it is possible to upload. This is using the app catalog, and distribute. In this case, you must have the consideration to limit the distribution destination in-house. Set of option settings following server is not required, and the setting, it spreads the availability of MobiControl. Gateway for accessing the Intranet inside of the repository server (WebDAV or SharePoint server) from outside', "To apply his terminal status to iOS devices and Android terminal, the terminal user's own, other than the target terminal smartphone, tablet, can be viewed on a PC", 'Such as a terminal to the lost mode, you can remote control. The server is MobiControl server itself. The console authority, is the ability to refer to the terminal user. To prevent illegal access to the MS Exchange server. Target terminal, iOS terminals, is the Android devices and Windows Embedded terminal. As reference information, also, please refer. Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. Setting order 1 of construction MobiControl in the WordPress.. Creating Required any of the connection profile of the following in the case of all of the terminal OS the target premises MobiControl server if only the setting matters iOS devices or macOS computer required to AD_DS between the (Active Directory Domain Service) server, AD_FS in between the (Active Directory Federation Service), between the Azure AD, essential if you want to manage the Windows10 as Windows Modern. The one of the company payment terminal (iOS Android), if you shared by a plurality of employees, mandatory', "2.Apple, Google, or for the purpose of obtaining the following Microsoft administrator for the account of, Apple's site the application of managed Google Play to purchase out of the app from the App Store to set out the authority Apple products that you can sign in to the app catalog If you want to distribute using is, it must be one of the two account of the following", 'However, if you want to set your Android device in the mode of Android Plus, the above account is not required. Use the WNS, when to remotely manage a Windows10 PC 3. along the organization of companies and organizations, hierarchically (input is the main work of the organization name) the terminal group created all of the terminal OS is subject 4. terminal registration the main purpose of to register the rules of creation terminal to a predetermined terminal group is a terminal registration rules. There is a setting options such as the type of authentication and the terminal name of the terminal user. For one of the terminal groups, it can be set of the plurality of terminal registration rules. All of the terminal OS is subject. By the terminal OS, how to create different. 5. Setting on the behavior of the terminal. You could even be changing the setting order of the following items. Configuration profile of creating information leak prevention, WiFi, VPN, e-mail, such as setting all of the terminal OS is targeting all of the terminal OS of the "Advanced" is other than the target terminal registration rules rules of the (application catalog rules, etc.) to create all "behavior set of terminal" of all of the terminal OS the target document terminal OS is with the exception of distribution and installation Apple products to the target application terminal, image, distributed iOS devices and Android devices to the terminal, such as a video of Section 6.5 subject even if you do not have all of the is completed, the registration of the terminal is possible. In addition, after the registration of the terminal, you can add any of the five terms, it can also be changed. All of the terminal OS is the target terminal OS-specific setting method, it will appear menu with the description page by clicking the "Setting" on the left index. It is to set the field of the terminal there is a "Advanced" and "rules" and "configuration profile". For more information, please refer to the. Overview of registration to the terminal MobiControl server of "registration ID", by the "registration URL" or "Setup.INI" file, the terminal, to know the URL of MobiControl the deployment server, and then the available access. Subsequently, the "registration ID", to uniquely corresponding terminal registration rules to the "URL for registration" or "Setup.INI" file, you declare the attribute information, such as its own terminal serial number. For one of the terminal registration rules, registration destination to become "terminal group" of the terminal is one. Terminal registration rules, the attribute information of the terminal, which has been the access, and save it in the folder of "terminal group" given of MobiControl management server. Now, registration of the terminal is complete. With respect to the registration of the terminal, click the "setup and operation of the terminal" of the left index, please refer to the page description. Delivery of data and content file synchronization rules operation method exchanged between specific folder of the terminal and the server. It is automatically transmitted and received on the basis of the schedule. In the case of iOS, data for which to generate the data or terminal application terminal application is used. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. Any of which content to download or the terminal user. With the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is necessary to upload in advance library. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. In-house file server (repository server), to download and access from the terminal. Without being aware of the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is sufficient to save it to a file server. The specification of as a file server, WebDAV or SharePoint. Can be specified folder under the umbrella of apps that add-on the iOS as a download destination target AndroidWindows system any folder. Format a matter not application of distributed application catalog MobiControl package published application in-house as long as the app download source of the content is set in-house server iOSAndroid PlusAndroid EnterpriseWindows PCWindows EmbeddedLinux options. Apple products MobiControl v14 ManualApple management MobiControl of the product on a MobiControl management iOS terminal of business application provides the best solutions to the management of the business application to the iOS device. Even without the operation of the terminal user, realizing a silent install and silent version up app. Since there is no need to wait for the operation of the terminal user, you can app distribution and version-up in short thousands of terminals in time. It accelerates the speed of business improvement. And in-house development, do not want to expose to the App Store app also distributed to the terminal, to create a white list of installed apps, WiFi and VPN, etc. of the ban-house start-up of unrelated apps in business can also be remote configuration. The screen of the remote view remote iOS devices the screen of iOS device, you can display on the console. When the terminal user that there is a problem in and apps when puzzled the app operation, it can respond to the screen displayed on the console. Until v14.1 is, only the remote view the add-on apps could not be achieved. From v14.2, now it allows for remote View Any app. macOS to silently install a batch setting business application "System Preferences" in the computer. You can collectively set the "System Preferences" in the console. Login screen design, FileVault, you can batch setting Dock, Finder, printer, Xsan, a complicated settings, such as enhancements in the console. "Network account" is also of Active Directory and Open Directory, you can remotely set from the console. Home folders and user, you can remotely set to make a file backup destination by Time Machine in the server. Please refer to the information leak prevention. For example, by prohibiting the "anywhere My Mac", you can prevent information leakage from the workplace computer to a home computer. Such as account auto-configuration in-house WiFi and VPN of for network infrastructure, you can simultaneously set. The measures iOS terminal of enhancement in the use of information leakage measures of iOS devices, you have a variety of information leakage measures are available. However, it is assumed that you have the appropriate settings. MobiControl, apply the proper settings forcibly. For example: - Set Force passcode. The allowable number of times limits of complexity and invalid pass code input', "Prohibition of Siri in the lock (if not prohibited, even during the lock, you can know the telephone number of the contact in the Siri) synchronization of the ban of iCloud of documents (from a PC or device of personal belongings and access to iCloud, the company's document Download", 'The personal belongings PC or device can become the information leakage source. ) Limit of Cookie (use in authentication when the only limitation) the installation of the terminal certificate (e-mail server and VPN use Cookie from the site that you visit in the past) in addition to company-defined WiFi is not allowed to access. (This feature is a new feature that has been added in the MobiControl v14) separately, and use the browser () that is provided free of charge, to the filtering of the Web site. In addition you can prohibit the use of Safari. The loss at the time of the measures activation lock If, when you disable the activation lock of the terminal, even without knowing the password of the pass code and Apple ID, the finder is, to connect the terminal to the PC you start iTunes, recovery and initializes it with the mode, you can use as your own thing. Usually, activation lock of the terminal Yes enabled, in which case, the finder can not apply the method described above. We can return from a remote Wipe console terminal to the factory default state. It sends a message that describes the like contacts to message terminal on the terminal screen, and displayed on the terminal screen. Yourself you lose your terminal, use a PC or tablet, and access to, you can implement the above item b and c section. In the case of monitoring mode company payment terminals, it is recommended that you set up in monitoring mode', "To set up the monitoring mode, in via Apple's servers, you must have the initial setting", 'By the iOS device to the monitoring mode, the following benefits can be obtained. As information leakage countermeasure and purpose other, you can force the setting of the terminal. For more information, refer to the following. See the details, the App Store app can silent installation', "In addition, it is possible to characterize the string that the App store in the user's Apple ID without, to the terminal", 'Also changed the terminal user, can inherit the same application (= new purchase unnecessary even for a fee app). When the management of the Apple ID to activate the monitoring mode the unnecessary terminal (default setting), not the registration of the Apple ID to Apple. Then, the terminal of the monitoring mode can be used without the registration of the Apple ID. At that time, the App Store app can be distributed by me for a device-based VPP application to application catalog. Even if you can not access the "iCloud", it is equivalent to the operation in the "". Now, it is possible to avoid the management of the Apple ID of each complicated terminal. (You can register your Apple ID of the terminal user by the terminal operation. To continue, you can also access to iCloud. ) Apple ID and password are also unknown, can the. Such as the display of the geographical location of the terminal, use the same functions as "Find My iPhone". It can be prohibited to disable the activation lock with forced terminal user of the activation lock. With the re-activation after a Wipe of reference activation lock bypass theft / loss is not terminal, it is possible to re-register with the MobiControl without having to enter the Apple ID and its password, etc.. Useful, for example, when the reset terminal settings. Conversely, for the terminal of the possibility of theft / loss, it does not require a bypass to the terminal. This, in the activation process, can be an essential Apple ID and the input of the bypass code of the password or activation lock. A reference. At the terminal side operation, referring to the prohibition deregistration to MobiControl. However, the terminal of manually DEP registration, 30 days after activation, can unregister. APNs terminal, usually, not connected to MobiControl server. Also, do not put a communication session with access from MobiControl server to the terminal. The iOS device, named "MDM protocol" program has been a standard feature at the time of shipment. This "MDM protocol" is a notification Notice from APNs (Apple Push Notification service), it is set to receive at all times. To send a command such as "Remote Lock", "lost mode" or "Wipe (initialization)" to the terminal, first, it sends the check-in request via the APNs. (Figure 2) terminal in response to the check-in request, the "check-in" to MobiControl server, you will receive the command. To the terminal, or send the configuration profile, to expand the rule also, to achieve by sending a check-in request to the terminal. From the terminal, "check-in" to the MobiControl server is the call of normal https (TCP443). Some of the rules, there is a app catalog rules, it will send information about the application should be installed. When finished send the object to be sent, the terminal will check out soon. When you add the installation of a MobiControl agent as one of the MobiControl agent application, you can add additional features to the terminal. When the terminal user starts the MobiControl agent, and "connection" to the MobiControl server. From the terminal, "connection" to the MobiControl server is the call of normal https (TCP443). (Fig. 3) sends the image image of the terminal, and then displayed on the console. Displays the change of the image in real time. Feed the geographical location of the terminal, and then displayed on the console of the map. It sends the terminal status information that can not be sent in the MDM protocol. You can send a lengthy message to the terminal. And check-in by the "MDM protocol", the connection by the "MobiControl agent", different objects to send and receive. For more information, please refer to the "". And the iOS device according to the VPP application catalog rules, named "App Catalog" icon appears on the home screen. This you can see the app name and icon of. This has been embedded in the URL to the app download source. Terminal user, and then download and install the business application by tapping this. The app, some App Store apps, apps that an in-house server and download the original as far as the company (= enterprise application) also unlikely. App Store app, you can be the VPP (Volume Purchase Planning = buying) contract as a company / organization. App that was purchased in the VPP contracts, rather than the individual terminal user has to bear the cost, and the cost burden together companies / organizations. The attribution of the VPP application, there are a choice to whether to "terminal (device)", "user". If it is device-based, be varied by the user of the terminal (= they change Apple ID of the terminal), you can continue to use the app', "That's user base, even the user to change the terminal, you can continue to use the app", 'New purchases also for a fee app is unnecessary. When the download of the App Store app, a pop-up of the terminal, there are the following differences. Monitoring mode terminal non-monitoring mode terminal VPP contract application without pop-up. Silent installation possible. Note: In the pop-up VPP is not a contract application Apple ID and password input of the pop-up the following two messages Apple ID and password input Note user base of the application to prompt the pop-up installation of the message prompting the installation, pop-up that characterize string the Apple ID of the user to the VPP contract appears. However, the first time only. For more information,. The DEP (Device Enrollment Program) is a mechanism for the iOS device to the monitoring mode. To the monitoring mode is when the terminal is initially set (activation). It is numbered with a unique serial number at the factory to the terminal', "The serial number has been registered in Apple's activation server", 'In a typical initial setting, because the URL of the MDM server to the serial number is not associated string, by registering the Apple ID, and ends the initial setting. The serial number, if the URL of the MDM server is associated string, the terminal will automatically access to the MDM server (redirect). And, it is registered with the MDM server. Subsequently, the configuration profile or the like which are provided for the terminal will be downloaded. To achieve (Figure 1) DEP the serial number of the terminal, that the DEP object must be registered in the Apple activation server. Depending on whether this registration Who, the DEP registration method There are two types', "ABM, the terminal purchased to buy from retailers that do not have a terminal DEP dealer ID to buy from a dealer that has a terminal DEP dealer ID to buy directly from the terminal mobile phone company that is substantially subject of Apple Business Manager but of terminal non-monitoring mode, the relocation of it to the monitoring person dealer to register the terminal terminal serial number you want to change to the DEP server mode (of purchase) available to companies / organizations of holders terminal serial number of the terminal registration rules the access authority is performed unnecessary DEP server to MobiControl console, holders usually tying available to companies / organizations with the URL of the terminal serial number and MobiControl server of registration scheduled terminal, in the case of the initialization and re-activation of the terminal it is, for Apple's activation server to enter the Apple ID and password will be required", 'In the terminal monitoring mode, you have the option to eliminate the need for management in the Apple ID', "In that case, the remote Wipe (initialization) and the terminal, upon re-activation, the MobiControl server sends the activation bypass code to the terminal, the terminal is it, by sending Apple's activation server, Apple and ID and the alternate input of the password", 'To the app you want to install the SDK for iOSOS terminal, and the add-ons, increases the utilization of in the business of iOS devices. The screen of the terminal, which move in the app operation, you can remotely displayed on the screen of the console PC. It will lead to the discovery of the guidance and the failure of the application operation. Or sucked up a sub-folder of the data files under the application to the file server, you can send the necessary data from the file server to the terminal in reverse. In app created, it makes it easier to file synchronization arrangements with the server. Automatically creates a subfolder for each terminal to the server side. To explora tools console PC, you will see a subfolder under the terminal app. Can file send and receive and update between the console PC, it can help, such as for debugging of application. It is free of charge. As authentication when registering the cooperation iOS terminal of the AD (Active Directory) to MobiControl server, you can request the input of the user name and password of the terminal user of AD_DS (Active Directory Domain Service). In the creation of configuration profiles addressed to the terminal obtained the authentication of the terminal registration of the benefits AD_DS of the authentication in AD_DS, it will be able to use the macro string% ENROLLED_UPN%. E-mail, as well as VPN and WiFi configuration profile to request AD_DS authentication, from being changed to the actual UPN of the terminal user, it will be distributed to the terminal. The ability to use this macro string% ENROLLED_UPN%, eliminating the need for configuration profiles of creating each individual terminal. Terminal user, at the time of terminal is lost, accessed from other devices (smartphone, tablet, PC), to, you can do the same operation as "Find My iPhone". Or to lost mode, you can perform the Wipe from the remote (look for the iPhone). In MobiControl v14, at the time of terminal registration, even without certification in AD_DS, you can. In the case of not grasping the user attributes in such mode monitoring mode non-monitoring mode AD authentication of the terminal, the management area of \u200b\u200bMobiControl will be the most widely. In the case of the management area will be the least. If you want to set as a non-monitoring mode, AD_DS not only, user authentication is also available in. In AD_FS, because the SSO (Single Sign On) is applied, at the time of terminal registration, you will not be prompted to enter a user ID and password. When you set up the monitoring mode, you can not authenticate with the AD_FS. This is because, initialized terminal, immediately after access to the DEP server, because the mechanism to proceed to the registration process to the MobiControl server, you can not authenticate by AD_FS. In addition to the benefits described in "" function of the above in the monitoring mode, for the sake of efficiency of the security measures and business, can provide the following functions:. Item of red characters are features added to the MobiControl v14. To create a white list of silent installation and silent version up the application of the management application of the application, the application start-up of the non-list to create a black list of banned apps, additional apps from the ban App Store a function of the listed apps Download ban app additional download prohibition of the store other than the application single-application mode (basically only one app) further remote configuration of remote configuration AirPrint of deletion prohibition AirPlay app, you can restrict the function as follows:. Start enable / disable iTunes prohibited host pairing the deregistration of MobiControl at the terminal side operation, in a mobile or vice versa ban WiFi dedicated terminal that the PC data to iOS devices, and not through a proxy server, in addition to the specified URL to ensure that it can not connect to the Internet, the content generated by the user in the use prohibition SIRI ban the ban Apple Music of Bluetooth that does not access other than WiFi, which was determined by the company to ensure that can not be accessed from a browser iMessage non Hide Exchange account changing the "today" view the notification Center in a non-display the lock screen in the use prohibition lock screen of the TLS communication request AirPrint in the use prohibition AirPrint prohibited AirDrop of use prohibition Erotica content of ill slander filter iBook Store of display SIRI ban mobile phone of packet usage record of changes in the line prohibited iCloud Keychain Sync of prohibited data sharing The prohibition configuration profile to remove all of the content and settings of the PKI of the update prohibition terminal due to the OTA to be from unmanaged data sharing to disable the change from the physical object to the unmanaged disable the change to the managed manual at the time of character input to disable the predictive keyboard to disable the search of prohibited Spotlight pairing of the ban to change the path code that does not install Apple Watch in, disable the spell check to disable the function to display the expected word to "find a friend" to disable the dictionary search of definition access ban to the application of the change prohibition game Center (icon delete game Center from the home screen) of prohibited PodCast to register friends in the game center prohibition in addition, iOS the ability to specify the number of days to delay the version-up, was added in MobiControl v14. Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) in © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. Measures iOS terminal under construction available in the WordPress, you have a variety of information leakage measures are available. However, it is assumed that you have the appropriate settings. MobiControl, apply the proper settings forcibly. For example: - Set Force passcode. The allowable number of times limits of complexity and invalid pass code input', "Prohibition of Siri in the lock (if not prohibited, even during the lock, you can know the telephone number of the contact in the Siri) synchronization of the ban of iCloud of documents (from a PC or device of personal belongings and access to iCloud, the company's document Download", 'The personal belongings PC or device can become the information leakage source. ) Limit of Cookie (use in authentication when the only limitation) the installation of the terminal certificate (e-mail server and VPN use Cookie from the site that you visit in the past) in addition to company-defined WiFi is not allowed to access. (This feature is a new feature that has been added in the MobiControl v14) separately, and use the browser () that is provided free of charge, to the filtering of the Web site. In addition you can prohibit the use of Safari. The iOS device, named "MDM protocol" program has been a standard feature at the time of shipment. This "MDM protocol" is a notification Notice from APNs (Apple Push Notification service), it is set to receive at all times. To send a command such as "Remote Lock", "lost mode" or "Wipe (initialization)" to the terminal, first, it sends the check-in request via the APNs. (Figure 2) terminal in response to the check-in request, the "check-in" to MobiControl server, you will receive the command. To the terminal, or send the configuration profile, to expand the rule also, to achieve by sending a check-in request to the terminal. From the terminal, "check-in" to the MobiControl server is the call of normal https (TCP443). Some of the rules, there is a app catalog rules, it will send information about the application should be installed. When finished send the object to be sent, the terminal will check out soon. When you add the installation of a MobiControl agent as one of the app, you can add additional features to the terminal. When the terminal user starts the MobiControl agent, and "connection" to the MobiControl server. From the terminal, "connection" to the MobiControl server is the call of normal https (TCP443). (Fig. 3) sends the image image of the terminal, and then displayed on the console. Displays the change of the image in real time. Feed the geographical location of the terminal, and then displayed on the console of the map. It sends the terminal status information that can not be sent in the MDM protocol. You can send a lengthy message to the terminal. Monitoring mode terminal non-monitoring mode terminal VPP contract application without pop-up. Silent installation possible. Note encourage the installation message Apple ID and password input DEP to prompt the pop-up VPP is not a contract application Apple ID and pop-up two of the pop-up installation of the following password input of the message (Device Enrollment Program) is a mechanism for the iOS device to the monitoring mode. To the monitoring mode is when the terminal is initially set (activation). It is numbered with a unique serial number at the factory to the terminal', "The serial number has been registered in Apple's activation server", 'In a typical initial setting, because the URL of the MDM server to the serial number is not associated string, by registering the Apple ID, and ends the initial setting. The serial number, if the URL of the MDM server is associated string, the terminal will automatically access to the MDM server (redirect). And, it is registered with the MDM server. Subsequently, the configuration profile or the like which are provided for the terminal will be downloaded. (Figure 1) Subject to the terminal mobile phone company purchase directly to the terminal DEP dealer ID to have terminal DEP to purchase are from dealer dealer ID, have they not buy the terminal purchased the terminal non-monitored from dealer from but mode, this is to the relocation MobiControl console to monitor human dealer to register the terminal terminal serial number you want to change to the DEP server mode (of purchase) available to companies / organizations of holders terminal serial number of the terminal registration rules the access authority is performed unnecessary DEP server, understand the user attributes in such tying use to companies / organizations of the owner terminal of the mode monitoring mode non-monitoring mode AD authentication with the URL of the terminal serial number and MobiControl server of registration scheduled terminal If not want to, management area of \u200b\u200bMobiControl will be the most widely. In the case of the management area will be the least. . Android terminal MobiControl v14 ManualAndroid setting mode of A. Android terminal A-1 come alive in MobiControl. In silent installation launcher function of highlight app MobiControl function on Android, display the home screen of the business-oriented A-2. the main function business protagonist of improvement and customer responsiveness improvement of efficiency for the productivity improvement is a business application. MobiControl supports the smooth deployment of business applications. Install the business silent installation of the application and silent version up (do not bother the hands of the terminal user) dedicated application of reverse proxy server and the terminal dedicated from the go, the terminal only can access specified in the console. . Pop-up display on the front if in use terminal. First in the pop-up display Once you unlock the terminal. You can also send an SMS from the console to the terminal. . A-3 highlight MobiControl of security features, but offers a number of security measures, the following, the highlight: According to the Force BitLocker of the complexity of the password for the encryption unlock including the SD card (If it is a virus detection, alarm mail to the parties) virus quarantine (only in the workplace, USB connection inability of the PC, such as a camera disabled) theft terminal network disconnected even if Wipe (initialization) Geofence to Web content the geographical location of the history display AD_DS of based access restrictions terminal (Active Directory Directory Service) or AD_FS (Federation Service) identification a-4 by. even if in a closed network of either of the terminal management Android Plus or Android Enterprise of, from the Internet a terminal connected to shut off the WiFi and closed mobile networks registered in the MobiControl server, you can be the distribution and management of the application. However, MobiControl server, it must be an on-premises. Also, you can not update the virus pattern file. B. "Android Plus" and "Android Enterprise" B-1. Terminal agent Android devices to be managed by MobiControl, there are two setting mode of "Android Plus" and "Android Enterprise". And Android PlusAndroid terminal manufacturers 143 companies in cooperation with SOTI is the development company of MobiControl, we have developed a terminal agent application that corresponds to the product of the manufacturer (APK file). It refers to the terminal mode in which you installed the agent and Android Plus. Depending on the manufacturer, but it supports more than Android4.2. In Japan, it is mainly sold to have Android Plus support of the manufacturer, are as follows:. Casio, Denso, Panasonic Toughpad, SONY Xperia, Sharp AQUOS SH-M02, Kyocera DignoU, Asus, HTC, Huawei, Lenovo, LG, Nexus, Samsung, Zebra, or a terminal manufacturers have prepared the terminal agent of Android Plus how does, please refer to the. Not every Android Enterprise handset manufacturers, if Android5.1 or more terminals, called a terminal mode where you installed the agent that can be basically applied to any terminal model and Android Enterprise. In order to use the full-featured, it has been a Android6.0 or more is desirable. At the specified mobile phone company, the model can not be set as Android Enterprise will present rare. So, in advance, we have to verify that can be set as Android Enterprise trial terminal. B-2. Can remote screen operation, the only one Android Enterprise remote screen view, by the manufacturer and model, you may or may not have plug-in is provided. If you install this plug-in, it allows remote screen operation even Android Enterprise. A remote screen operation, is to manipulate it to display the terminal screen to the console. Remote screen view is a feature where you can see a screen that changes by the operation of the terminal user in the console. In Android PlusAndroid Enterprise plug-in there without a plug-in remote screen can be operated basically possible impossible remote screen view Yes Yes Yes June 2019 point in time, 57 companies of the terminal manufacturers, offers a plug-in for Android Enterprise. If to set as Android Enterprise, it is a good idea to pick up the products of manufacturers that provides a plug-in. Whether manufacturers have prepared the plug-in, please refer to the. For the distribution and installation of the terminal group of the plug-in, please refer to the. B-3. \u200b\u200bWhether the company paid terminal, the application used for personal belongings terminal or Android terminal of the business, or to, will be distributed to the terminal. And, in many cases, it will be a silent installation. As an application other than business, and optionally download the app terminal user, as to whether you can install, there is such a difference in the following. Terminal users to download the app on its own, can either or Android Plus acceptable installation, AndroidEnterpriseDevice Owner Mode company / organization has specified application only install Profile Owner Mode terminal user can also prohibited, it is downloaded and installed on any Android Enterprise Profile Owner Mode is intended for the case to use the personal belongings terminal to the business. The data business application is generated, it can not be picked up by private apps. B-4. Detailed comparison of how the setting mode to the adoption or Android PlusAndroid Enterprise Device Owner ModeAndroid Enterprise Profile Owner Mode, please have a look at the page of "". Feature Comparison of security measures have also been displayed. C. Android EnterpriseC-1. Compared with here is different MobiControl of Android Enterprise standard MDM / EMM of Android Enterprise, Android Enterprise of MobiControl provides the following benefits:. To, directly push delivered to the terminal, the silent install standard Android Enterprise solutions, only through managed Google Play can not be distributed apps. If you do not want to expose their development application, it troubled operation in a closed network that is blocking the connection to the Internet. In the console, download the app (APK files) from Google Play, and, you can also push distribution to the terminal. In launcher ability to create, to create a home screen of the business-oriented, displayed on the terminal C-2. Managed Google Play Store Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode, you can set up by initializing the terminal. And through the tune-up of the OS level, will be registered in MobiControl. The Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode of the terminal, the general of the Google Play Store icon does not appear. Therefore, the terminal user will not be able to download the app of Google Play Store. Instead, the person in charge with the managed Google Play account, gives approval to the application it is determined that the need to work from the Google Play Store. Then, it will be posted this app, to. By reproduced in this, the application is pushed to the terminal, it will be a silent installation. The Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode of the terminal, managed Google Play Store icon appears. Icon bag of managed Google Play Store comes with. In general the Google Play Store icon Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode of the terminal, in addition to the method to distribute the application using the managed Google Play store, you can also push distribution apps. C-3. To the application distribution using the managed GooglePlay account, you must obtain a managed GooglePlay account. See the page of "", please get. In one of the companies, it is also possible to get a separate "" in multiple departments and multiple stores. In this case, you can deploy a different application to another department or store. C-4 a. Managed Google account Active Directory of UPN, it can be a Google account ID for the work of the terminal user. UPN is the e-mail address type, such as the <user name> @ <FQDN domain name>. Then, you can deploy a variety of apps that Google has to offer in-house. In this work for Google account, you can not access the general Google Play Store. You can access the. In this case, you must be in conjunction your AD_DS the (Active Directory Domain Service) and Google account database. To pick up the business application from the general Google Play store, as the account to be posted to, you need to get the managed Google account. See the page of "", please get the managed Google account. In addition, when registering a terminal to the MobiControl, as the authentication of the terminal user, you will need authentication by AD_DS. D. MobiControl MobiControl agent of setting Android terminal to the agent continues to operate in the background to operate at all times, you will need to maintain a connection with the MobiControl server. Be operatively other apps in the foreground, also, even if the terminal is in sleep state, the agent, and run in the background, you must maintain the connection. Android terminal, and is connected to the MobiControl server, console terminal icon at the terminal list screen is, and then you will be green, and it must have been so. Terminal Android device icon, and it has become gray, except when you have to limit the connection time zone by setting the "", is the state undesirable operational. Android6.x, in the 7.x of the terminal, and goes to sleep, the operation of most of the background apps will stop. However, even if the terminal is in sleep state, MobiControl agent, so that you continue to run in the background. The method, please refer to the page of "". Setting order MobiControl of E. Android terminal is done in the following order:. Along the organization of companies and organizations, especially business for hierarchically create a terminal group (the input of the organization name is the main work) (in the case of Android Enterprise) or (in the case of Android Enterprise) of commercial application distribution in order to distribute the necessary files to the terminal, you have uploaded to the server. If only to check the suitability of the terminal agent, 5.6.7. It is but skips, set up whether the terminal can be checked. It is to set the field of the terminal there is a "Advanced" and "rules" and "configuration profile". For more information, please refer to the. F. For details on how to register to the installation and server agent of the registered Android terminal to the terminal agent installation and server, please refer to the following. Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. WordPress and in the construction Android PlusAndroid Enterprise plug-in available plug-ins without the remote screen operation can be basically possible impossible remote screen view Yes Yes Yes terminal user to download the app on its own, can either or Android Plus acceptable installation, only install Profile Owner Mode terminal user can also AndroidEnterpriseDevice Owner Mode company / organization has specified application is prohibited, downloaded to any you can install and, directly push delivered to the terminal, the silent install standard Android Enterprise solutions, only through managed Google Play can not be distributed apps. If you do not want to expose their development application, it troubled operation in a closed network that is blocking the connection to the Internet. In the console, download the app (APK files) from Google Play, and, you can also push distribution to the terminal. In launcher ability to create, to create a home screen of the business-oriented, displayed on the terminal Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode, you can set up by initializing the terminal. And through the tune-up of the OS level, will be registered in MobiControl. The Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode of the terminal, the general of the Google Play Store icon does not appear. Therefore, the terminal user will not be able to download the app of Google Play Store. Instead, the person in charge with the managed Google Play account, gives approval to the application it is determined that the need to work from the Google Play Store. Then, it will be posted this app, to. By reproduced in this, the application is pushed to the terminal, it will be a silent installation. The Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode of the terminal, managed Google Play Store icon appears. Icon bag of managed Google Play Store comes with. Icon of a general Google Play Store. Sample of Windows PCMobiControl v14 ManualWindows Why not take a look at the fundamental security measures and remote configuration health configuration certificate of your PC the PC? (Figure 1) Health configuration certificate that Microsoft will come sent to each PC (Figure 1) is a sample of health configuration certificate coming sent from Microsoft. And this certificate item is one virtual secure mode of, the ID and password information when you access the corporate server, is the ability to store it in a safe location in the PC (secure kernel). (See Figure 2). Invading malware, even took the administrator rights of the PC for example, not stolen, such as a password to the corporate server. Not stolen even if the memory dump. (Figure 1), because it is disabled, it indicates that the password to the corporate server is in place under the umbrella of the normal OS kernel. This is a very dangerous state. Password to the corporate server is stolen, important information in the on-premises server will outflow. If a targeted attack your company decided to target, the attacker will invade always slip through the anti-virus software. The method is diverse but, for example, to e-mail disguised as a business, it has been attached by encrypting the malware file', "That it's encrypted files, anti-virus software can not be quarantined", 'In the file-less attack a number of targeted attacks, and the file-less attack. File-less attack the malicious code only to memory is latent deployed, the HDD / SSD does not have a malware file. Therefore, it can not scan quarantined in the anti-virus software. The method There are many. For example, instead becomes the C \\ Windows \\ System32 \\ under the umbrella of the Windows regular exe file, this is when you start memory development. There is also a case of memory development also Komu dive in the memory space of svchost.exe. Not be a file-less attack, there is also a case in which the malware file continues to potential remains encrypted. Therefore, it can not scan quarantined in the anti-virus software. On the other hand, DLL file that is activated with the start of the regular app, it will be substituted secretly. The DLL is, be adapted to decrypt the malware that has been encrypted, malicious code will be expanded in the memory space and regular application is started. Disable an attacker disable or PC in the Firewall of anti-virus software, or disable disabled or PC in the Firewall of anti-virus software. Then, to the remote operation using Windows regular tools, such as the PsExec. Code to implement these disabled, have been published in the back site, an attacker can easily get. And enters on a single PC, will continue to next to expand to other PC in the enterprise', "Can not quarantine invasion by anti-virus software, on the assumption that may be sure, normal whether the report is the important data (such as ID and password to the customer information server), such as is not stolen measures within the PC is Microsoft's gender configuration is the certificate", 'To one (Figure 2) one of your Windows 10 PC, Microsoft will send you free of charge. You sent me the latest health configuration certificate for each end-point PC to check in to MobiControl server. From the terminal list of the console of MobiControl, when you click on any of the Windows 10 PC, a certificate, such as (Figure 1) it will be displayed on the screen. Endpoint PC is, but you regularly check in to MobiControl, at that time, when a non-normal is found in any of the fields of health configuration certificate, now trigger alert. Alarm e-mail is sent to the CSIRT officials of the company. CSIRT = Computer Security Incident Response to automatically move the Team relevant endpoint PC to a special terminal group, profile: The deprivation (eg VPN of use rights), and harmless. And displays a message on the screen of the appropriate endpoint PC. Of all the PC of your company, you can be the health configuration certificate lists by extracting the non-normal PC. For more information, please click the ".". The health configuration certificate, in addition to a "virtual secure mode", there are a number of security check items. (Figure 1), but we wrote all of the test items, you can also reduce this. The method, please refer to the "". The policy setting endpoint PC of WIP (Windows information protection) You can apply a policy of WIP. To prevent leakage of company information. Apps, such as Word, specified in the "managed application". Content that you created in the "managed application" (company data) is encrypted associated company ID and a string. Corporate data can be shared in the house. In other words, you can share if PC to Azure AD domain, or the IP address band same. You can save such as SharePoint. Corporate data, when you try to save to USB memory, or to prohibit it, will pop up a warning message. For example, the enterprise data opened in Word, when you try to copy and paste the SNS, such as Facebook, or to prohibit it, will pop up a warning message. Corporate data, using the Explore, to personal external storage (such as DropBoxTM), when you try to file transmission, or to prohibit it, will pop up a warning message. How to set the WIP policy, please see "". Other security measures can be remotely configure many of the security measures in the other, but the following is an example that. Preference of distribution PC startup boot driver of malware quarantine terminal certificate by encryption Windows Defender of the drive unit of the PC according to the BitLocker (usually, parts hardware manufacturers of signed and unsigned drivers are mixed. It is limited it only to signed possible) to remotely manage the application management in-house PC app. Setting of the usage right of the new application of the distribution and the silent installation version up the application and distribution overwrite installation business application limited to the local user, or other all of the apps installed and whether admit from the PC to the remote access user to the relevant PC the focusing on the part of the string of the name of the list display specific apps for each PC, PC display a list of group PC to which the application has been installed, for example, an app that could lead to information leakage has been installed remote operation in-house PC screen to uninstall prohibition PC of business application by listing a user of the group, you can remote operation and transferred to a console. Inquiry about the operation method and the PC of the problems in the PC, the IT department, you will be asked every day. IT department personnel, without Demuka to the location of the PC, or how to use guidance, then you may be able to repair the problem. It offers a feature set that exceeds the pcAnywhere. There is a remote configuration remote support PC of the function and behavior of the PC, if you send to the endpoint PC this as a configuration profile, you can define the function and behavior of their PC in a unified manner. To do this, "the time setting of the Windows update", "content selection of the notification to the usage Microsoft (Telemetry)", "restriction of CPU load rate when Windows Defender is a virus scan", "e-mail account of the domain It includes such as limiting the portion ". Windows Defender ATP remote configuration Windows Defender ATP (Advanced Threat Protection) is a Microsoft EDR (Endpoint Detection & Response) solutions. Windows Defender ATP, it can detect threats that have slipped through the anti-virus software. In addition, also recognizes sign of attack. MobiControl, set the remote configuration of Windows Defender ATP from the console (OnBoading). For more information, please refer to the "". Windows Defender ATP will detect a successful cyber attack from unusual activity of the end-point PC', "10 more than a million units Windows devices and 2 trillion indexed Web URL of, 600 million online evaluation of, the analysis already based on Microsoft's vast database obtained from such as more than 1 million of suspicious files and analyzes the", 'The data relates to a process for the suspicious behavior that has been sent from your end-point PC, Microsoft will the AI \u200b\u200banalysis. Threat sensor mechanism of Windows Defender ATP (ATP agent) is already built into the OS of Windows10. Please refer to the following Microsoft documentation for Windows Defender ATP. Overview Description abnormal PC automatic isolation security point of view in an abnormal judged to be the end-point PC of the measures will be automatically isolated. Quarantine endpoint PC, installed business application sent in the package will be uninstalled automatically. You will not be able to use a VPN or e-mail that has been set. At the same time, email alerts will be sent to the boss and stakeholders. MobiControl from the terminal group corresponding to the department belonging of the end point, to "abnormal terminal group", the end point be to automatic movement, it will be carried out this isolation. The configuration profile of the abnormal terminal group, without assigning the app, leave a restricted many of the features of the end point. If the problem point of the end point has been resolved, this, to return to the traditional terminal group in the operation of the console. Designation of the application is re-installed, the function of the terminal, will return to the previous. To Windows Modern and Windows PC configuration mode in Windows ClassicMobiControl is, there is a Windows Modern and Windows Classic. Both overview of, are shown in the table below. General use dedicated business applications, such as applications affairs of Windows ModernWindows Classic endpoint. Desktop screen that displays only the specified application icon. Used as a KIOSK terminal. The app push distribution and the distribution system or in the application of silent installable possible application of and distributed to package and method to set the behavior of the distribution remote screen can be operated can be the end point, the to MobiControl of sending endpoint of distribution it registration required Note 1Active Directory for authentication of the OS version Windows 10 Note 2Windows 8.1 or higher mail unnecessary MobiControl to support, WiFi, VPN, set the remote setting of the terminal certificate is possible remote configuration is impossible Note 1Active Directory authentication by Azure AD also supports. In addition, Id Provider in cooperation in AD_DS, for example, is also possible. Note 2 support to Windows 10 EditionMobiControl supports the following Edition of Windows 10. Windows 10 Home However, there is a limit to the management can function. Windows 10 ProWindows 10 Pro in S ModeWindows 10 EnterpriseWindows 10 Enterprise LTSBWindows 10 EducationWindows 10 HolographicWindows 10 Holographic for BusinessWindows 10 Hyper-VWindows 10 IoT EnterpriseWindows 10 IoT Enterprise LTSB (LISC) Edition upgrade (for example, from Pro to Enterprise) is, from the console you can easily run in the remote operation. Please refer to "12. license renewal of". Windows Embedded terminal MobiControl, in addition to the Windows PC system, also supports the Windows Embedded. MobiControl supported by a supported Windows Embedded Compact7Windows Embedded Compact2013MobiControl v13 v14 Windows CE.NET 4.2Windows CE.NET 5.0Windows Embedded CE6.0Windows Embedded Compact7Windows Embedded Compact2013 However, by the terminal manufacturer and the model number, there does not support terminal. Please refer to the "". Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. The (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. House of the PC screen built in the WordPress, you can remote operation and transferred to a console. Inquiry about the operation method and the PC of the problems in the PC, the IT department, you will be asked every day. IT department personnel, without Demuka to the location of the PC, or how to use guidance, then you may be able to repair the problem. It offers a feature set that exceeds the pcAnywhere. Remote support MobiControl of the PC, from the terminal group corresponding to the department belonging of the end point, to "abnormal terminal group", the end point be to automatic movement, it will be carried out this isolation. The configuration profile of the abnormal terminal group, without assigning the app, leave a restricted many of the features of the end point. If the problem point of the end point has been resolved, this, to return to the traditional terminal group in the operation of the console. Designation of the application is re-installed, the function of the terminal, will return to the previous. General use dedicated business applications, such as applications affairs of Windows ModernWindows Classic endpoint. Desktop screen that displays only the specified application icon. Used as a KIOSK terminal. The app push distribution and the distribution system or in the application of silent installable possible application of and distributed to package and method to set the behavior of the distribution remote screen can be operated can be the end point, the to MobiControl of sending endpoint of distribution it registration required Note 1Active Directory for authentication of the OS version Windows 10 Note 2Windows 8.1 or higher mail unnecessary MobiControl to support, WiFi, VPN, set the remote setting of the terminal certificate is possible remote configuration is impossible MobiControl is, the next Windows 10 support of Edition. Windows 10 Home However, there is a limit to the management can function. Windows 10 ProWindows 10 Pro in S ModeWindows 10 EnterpriseWindows 10 Enterprise LTSBWindows 10 EducationWindows 10 HolographicWindows 10 Holographic for BusinessWindows 10 Hyper-VWindows 10 IoT EnterpriseWindows 10 IoT Enterprise LTSB (LISC) Edition upgrade (for example, from Pro to Enterprise) is, from the console you can easily run in the remote operation. Please refer to "12. license renewal of". MobiControl v14でサポートWindows Embedded Compact7Windows Embedded Compact2013MobiControl v13でサポートWindows CE.NET 4.2Windows CE.NET 5.0Windows Embedded CE6.0Windows Embedded Compact7Windows Embedded Compact2013. The Windows EmbeddedMobiControl v14 ManualWindows Embedded terminal Windows Embedded handy terminal on the remote control MobiControl console, you can operate the remote Windows Embedded handy terminal. Not only the screen of the terminal, the hardware key can also be operated in the console. Response and to the operation on the question of (FIG. 1) terminal user, useful for debugging of application. The app to push, and push the installer of the silent install apps to the terminal. The installer, as a package that accompanied the installation command, will be sent. Even without Morawa to the operation to the terminal user, you can silently install the app. Version-up can also silent installation. (Figure 2) MobiControl v14 is, support MobiControl v14.x the Windows Embedded Compact7 later, the encrypted communication protocol between the server and the terminal, has adopted a TLS1.2 due to the SHA-2. The following table is the release history of the Windows Embedded-based OS. Windows Embedded Compact7, which supports the TLS1.2, until Windows Embedded CE6.0, it does not support the TLS1.2. Therefore, MobiControl v14.x supports the Windows Embedded Compact7 later. If you use a terminal of the Windows Embedded CE 6.0, please you continue to use the MobiControl v13.x', "Not Windows CE.NET 4.22013 / 07/09 support the support of Microsoft's support stop date or stop scheduled date TLS1.2", 'Continued use in MobiControl v13. Is Windows CE 5.02014 / 10 / 14Windows Embedded CE 6.02018 / 04 / 10Windows Embedded Compact 72021/04/13 support. It can operate in MobiControl v14. Windows Embedded Compact 20132023/10 / 10Windows OS of Embedded system has been used in many of the handy terminal model. Luggage management by courier, product inventory management in the distribution industry, process control in the manufacturing industry, such as "mobile POS cash register" in the wagon sold in the train, you have handy terminal is used in many industries. Windows Embedded terminal by terminal manufacturers, different API of the terminal function. So, SOTI, Inc., with the cooperation of about 60 companies of terminal manufacturers, each manufacturer, has developed the agent software of MobiControl for each model. To set the Windows Embedded terminal so that it can be managed by MobiControl, please refer to the', "Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. WordPress Microsoft's support of the support stop date or stop scheduled date TLS1.2 built on the Windows CE.NET 4.22013 / 07/09 does not support", 'Continued use in MobiControl v13. Is Windows CE 5.02014 / 10 / 14Windows Embedded CE 6.02018 / 04 / 10Windows Embedded Compact 72021/04/13 support. It can operate in MobiControl v14. Windows Embedded Compact 20132023/10/10. LinuxMobiControl v14 ManualLinux remote support Linux devices, Linux server, the user screen of the remote operation Linux device of IoT devices (Rasberry Pi), when you feel the difficulty to the operation, in you will be able to solve problems. If the Linux server is in a remote location, without going to a local, you will be able to support the. Supports the widely the installed Raspbian to Raspberry Pi. It will be able to remote support of devices equipped with Raspberry Pi. (Figure 1) screen pixels of the Linux side, will be sent to the console. Screen transition by the operation of the Linux device side is also displayed on the console side. On the other hand, the screen operation of the console side, will also be displayed on the display of the Linux device. Screen information of this remote operation is transmitted and received via MobiControl server. Support the Ubuntu and Raspbian MobiControl to support, Linux distributions are two types of the following. When you package the application in Ubuntu 16.04 or more Raspbian 8.0 above will be distributed to the terminal, on a Linux device, you can auto-install. In this case, after the application of the installer, you have to create a package to describe the installer of the execution script. You can a Linux script to send Linux device. Or move the files to another directory, Read rights of the user, Write rights, you can allow or deprivation, such as Execute rights. A file that contains a log, etc. generated in the regular interrogation Linux device side of the file, it can suck up to MobiControl server. Set in advance the schedule, if the time of the schedule, automatically sucked up. On the contrary, the file of a specific folder of MobiControl server, you can also send files to a specific directory on the device side. For more information, please refer to the. The application of the alert rules for the Linux device side of some abnormality, to apply, or automatically out an email to the parties, or you can emergency limiting the rights to the device. Copyright © 2010 -2019/ Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co.,Ltd.(Tokyo)© 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. WordPress とで構築. The advantage of the advantage MobiControl v14 ManualMobiControl of MobiControl MobiControl will have a history of 20 years. Its product features, requests received from 170 countries of the customers are condensed. Performs a silent installation and silent update of business application, data required for the business, file, the content and accurately distributed, it will contribute to the efficiency-up of your work. With the introduction of MobiControl, these things you will be able to: 1. display the screen of the remote terminal capable of remote operation or remote view, the terminal screen to the console, you can operate the terminal on the console of the operation. Or, you can see a screen that changes by the operation of the terminal. This is quite useful, such as debugging of operational guidance and apps apps. In explora tool, you can open the folder in the terminal with an external device sense of console. You can also, such as copy / paste files between the console and the terminal. Record the screen changes, you can refer to debug. Remote operation terminal OS remote view Android terminal that has been set as a terminal OSAndroid Plus that can (Android4.2 or later) of the part that has been set as Android Enterprise Android device Windows PC (Windows8.1 or later) that can Windows Embedded terminal (Windows CE4.2 or later) Linux device (Ubuntu16.04LTS later, all of the Android devices (Android5.1 or later) iOS terminal (iOS11 later set as the later) Android Enterprise Raspbian8.0) macOS computer (macOS10.12 later) 2. app silent of the installation and silent update the business applications to push distributed to a terminal or PC, you can silent installation. It does not bother the hands of the terminal user. Not only the initial installation, you also quite useful in version-up of the application. To distribute the application to the terminal, 2 means of the "application catalog" "application package" has been ready. Display a list of apps to be installed on the app catalog app package outline terminal at the terminal. In principle, by using the supplied installation free of charge by the terminal user to tap, to package the app. This package is pushed distributed from MobiControl over server, will be a silent installation. Subject to terminal OSiOS, macOS, Android, Windows PCAndroid, Windows PC, Windows Embedded, Linux silent installation is possible cases iOS, install Android on the terminal is set to "required" designation App Store app in the monitoring mode in macOS developed in-house app in "essential" specified Android Enterprisemanaged Google Play Store app on your device General self-developed application, to "essential" terminal of wrote in the column on the specified OS is, without exception, you can silently install. In a typical MDM / EMM solution that does not a package distribution, for the Android Enterprise terminal, Confidential app also not forced to the limit published on Google Play. In addition, the terminal in the closed network that is isolated from the Internet, you do not have a means of distributing the app. 3. Android enhancements and top class Android terminal security measures of the terminal, depending on the manufacturer, the specification is different. MobiControl is to collaborate with each manufacturer, we have to enhance the functions of the MDM / EMM. Terminal model with these features are called. Not only a "remote control" and "Silent installation" above, for example, offers the following features to Android devices. Remote configuration of VPN parameters and authentication method to access the corporate server company remote configuration of the mail account other, offers a variety of functions for the sake of efficiency and information leakage prevention of business. Be connected via USB or Bluetooth in-house PC, so as not to retrieve the internal file. Camera function and microphone function is stopped in the house. Or prohibit the WiFi connection of the weak WEP system security strength, not only WiFi by the IT department was recognized to be connected. Only not to install the company admitted app. Even pulled out a file over an encrypted SD card and USB at the terminal within the file unit, it is sent to the external e-mail attachments can not open it in the other terminal, unconnected even after a certain period of time can not be opened in the external device the terminal, a time bomb, a remove the internal files. Once stolen disconnect the network connection, such as removing the SIM card of the terminal, remote Wipe Unable. At that time, the terminal autonomously file deletion. Prohibition of smart lock (Smart Lock, in the terminal under certain conditions, work without a password can unlock) Please refer to other "". At the moment, the manufacturer and model of Android Plus terminal that can be available in Japan in the next street: -Casio IT-G400 VR100 VR700 VT500Panasonic ToughpadSONY XperiaSharp AQUOS SH-M02 Kyocera DignoUAsusHTCHuaweiLenovoLG ElectronicsNexusSamsungZebraZTE alphabetical order. However old model does not support Android Plus. In the case in Android Plus is not a model that does not support, you set in the Android Enterprise. Comparison overview of the Android Plus and Android Enterprise, please refer to the. 4. In the process of effective use of the support activation of iOS devices and macOS computer (default setting), Apple is offering a DEP (Device Enrollment Program) service that automatically register the iOS devices and macOS computer to the MDM server you. iOS devices registered in the MobiControl (Enrollment) via the DEP is, and will be. For iOS devices of the monitoring mode, the console administrator, you can determine the settings for that function. For example, can you. In the case of monitoring mode, management of Apple ID for each terminal is no longer needed. Even if there is no registration of the Apple ID, download the app from the App Store, to silently install. Similar to the "Find My iPhone" to display the geographical location of the terminal to the PC of the console or terminal user. Terminal screen will be "". MobiControl, perform remote configuration and remote monitoring for each of the monitoring mode and the non-monitoring mode. In order to support the work of the terminal user, for example, it offers the following features. Have a look at the operation screen of the remote view terminal of the terminal screen to the console administrator, send the data file to be referred to the business application that can explain the question with respect to the operation method periodically from the server. Or, suck up data to business application is generated to the server. To the terminal, which was created with reference to AD_DS (the "" the need for add-on to the application), Exchange account is VPN that was tied to each application are set automatically (such as MS Office document) file that you prepared in the automatic start console and, content (still image, video), and after you enable the other "touch ID and pass code" can be picked up at the terminal, the contents of the iOS device is encrypted. The data file that business application is generated, can not also be opened in other apps. In addition to this, MobiControl provides the following security features. To reset (Wipe) remotely Wipe terminal side operation may require input of a password Apple ID, from the console, and without intervention of the terminal side operation, it is possible to enable remote-Wipe, geography of the terminal position console and a, and access to iCloud data backup to iCloud to be displayed to the user in the prohibition home PC, the anti-host pairing a danger to save the business files in the terminal to the home PC to the ban USB connection prevented from copying the data of the company of the PC to the terminal Te. Or, prevent the transfer of the data of the terminal to the home of the PC. The for the WiFi of the specified company designation of WiFi / SSID only connection is to not ban the Bluetooth connection 5. support a targeted attack measures each PC security measures of Windows 10 available from Microsoft HAS (Health Attestation Service), if the abnormal to the normal resistance if, MobiControl will alert Sending mail to the isolation and the corresponding PC parties. Windows10 is provided to targeted attacks, it offers a wide range of endpoint security measures. For example, I like the sealing of the password storage area to the various servers. When you create an information leakage countermeasure == WIP (Windows information protection) files are encrypted associated string to the company ID. If in MobiControl under the control of the PC, it is possible to open the file, you can share information. However, even taking out the file to the outside, can not be decoded on a PC outside the MobiControl management, it can not be opened. Zero-day attack measures == Windows Defender ATPMobiControl is, the PC of Windows 10 PRO of the management of, and distributed all at once the Defender ATP (Advanced Threat Protection), and the silent installation. The behavior sensor is installed in the PC, if you find the process of suspicious behavior, sends the specimen to a Microsoft cloud service, it will detect unknown malware. And then encrypted with the terminal anti-theft == BitLocker volume unit. MobiControl detects a PC that is not encrypted by BitLocker, you can isolate. 6. to belong to register the terminal for each group along the organizational hierarchy of the management company / organization along the organizational hierarchy of the companies / organizations. Function setting or feature limits of the terminal, and it can be managed in line with the organizational hierarchy in the distribution of apps and files. (The entire company, headquarters unit) upper layer is set at, the set value is also at a lower level will be reflected. Therefore, the setting items in the lower level will be greatly Herase. Terminal that is affiliated registered in each organization of the company / organization, furthermore, you can also register in the virtual group. The virtual group, for example, a group of the "inside work\'s" "outside work who" will be considered. The grant also will be possible to create a "personal belongings terminal group" and "company paid terminal group". As a result, you can change the apps and terminal settings to be distributed. In addition, "only less than iOS11" or, you can also set such as a virtual group of "Android Enterprise Profile Owner Mode of terminal only" or "Windows10 PRO only.". Properties another group of these terminals, and a convenient configuration management for the terminal. 7. when there is some abnormality or change in geofence terminal, MobiControl will automatically change the group affiliation of the terminal. In the configuration profile of the change destination of the group, for example in the terminal if it is implemented with the "camera function Stop" is, you will not be able to camera shooting. As one of the alert trigger of Android devices, there is a geo-fence (enclosure on the virtual geography). Once you have registered offices of the company as a geofence, the function restriction on the information leakage countermeasure when brought in a terminal to the office can be added to the terminal. For example, from in-house PC to disable, such as information extraction via USB cable. 8. offers a tool to create a set company designated launcher Launcher. Company designation of the application, file title, Web page, and specify place the VPN application on the screen. Home screen terminal manufacturers were prepared not to be displayed. While the work carried out smoothly, it hides the display of unwanted apps to business. Android devices and the PC is set as Windows Classic, and if the target 9. alert generation terminal of the function restriction information leakage risks and abnormal situation that lead to the failure occurs in the terminal, automatically performs the deal such as functional limitations of the terminal. And Problem by e-mail to interested parties. If not in an abnormal situation, depending on the value and IP address of the specific data in the terminal, you can move the affiliation terminal group. By the terminal group, the applied configuration profile, rules, since the detailed settings are different, the terminal, follow the set value of the destination terminal group. 10. files periodically update application of the data file of the application is generated, it regularly sucked into each terminal another folder of MobiControl server. We capture this to the internal business system. On the other hand, it will send the data files all at once in a predetermined folder of each terminal. Terminal of the app will see this. In the case of iOS devices, there are the "" to the application need to be add-on to the app. 11. Subject to the authentication by Active Directory by the companies / organizations that are terminal management use AD_DS (Active Directory Domain Service) or AD_FS (Active Directory Federation Service), you can to allow the registration of the MobiControl server terminal. In the creation of the AD_DS or AD_FS configuration profile addressed to the terminal obtained the certification, it will be able to use the macro string% ENROLLED_UPN%. The VPN and WiFi configuration profile to request e-mail as well as AD_DS authentication, from being changed to the actual UPN of the terminal user, will be distributed to the terminal. Eliminating the need for configuration profiles of creating each individual terminal. You can safely download the document and content from the download-house departmental repository server (file server) 12. In the go from the corporate repository server. A dedicated app for this (SOTI Hub), reverse proxy program is provided free of charge. Repository server platform is the WebDAV or SharePoint. And the like of the target server URL to a dedicated app on your device, you can not access If you do not set by MobiControl console administrator. The file that you (the terminal user can not set) download, or send it to other terminals, or copied to the SD card, you will not be able to print. To stay outside the company will be able to refer to the in-house files also. For the effective use and management of mobile devices and PC, MobiControl offers many of the features in addition to the above-mentioned. Depending on the OS version and model model of the target device, there are times when it does not work on the street. Please note. Terminal to data, files, the way to send the content, there are four types. Description subject to terminal OS file synchronization file transmission and reception of the specified folder and the server of the specified folder of rules terminal. To transmit and receive on a scheduled basis. Intervention unnecessary of the terminal user to send and receive operation. It can be sent to the server direction from the terminal. Suitable for transmitting and receiving data to data or application app reference is generated. iOS (However, only folder under the umbrella of apps that add-on to "") Android, the push to Windows Modern, Windows Classic, Windows Embedded, Linux terminal of the specified folder. Intervention unnecessary of the terminal user. Android, Windows Modern, Windows Classic, Windows Embedded, Linux console administrator, files and content that has been uploaded as for terminal. Download, any of the terminal user. The iOS and Android in-house regular file server files, in any of the terminal user, download. As the terminal-side application, it is installed the SOTI Hub (free of charge). iOS and AndroidCopyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. The (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. WordPress and in the construction 1. screen of the remote terminal capable of remote operation or remote view, the terminal screen is displayed on the console, you can operate the terminal on the console of the operation. Or, you can see a screen that changes by the operation of the terminal. This is quite useful, such as debugging of operational guidance and apps apps. In explora tool, you can open the folder in the terminal with an external device sense of console. You can also, such as copy / paste files between the console and the terminal. Record the screen changes, you can refer to debug. Remote operation terminal OS remote view Android terminal that has been set as a terminal OSAndroid Plus that can (Android4.2 or later) of the part that has been set as Android Enterprise Android device Windows PC (Windows8.1 or later) that can Windows Embedded terminal (Windows CE4.2 later) Linux device (Ubuntu16.04LTS later, Raspbian8.0 later) Android all Android devices (Android5.1 later set as Enterprise) iOS terminal (IOS11 later) macOS computer (MacOS10.12 later) terminal OS capable remote operation remote view Android devices (Android4.2 or later) that is set as a terminal OSAndroid Plus that can Android part of which was set as the Enterprise Android device Windows PC (Windows8.1 or later) Windows Embedded terminal (Windows CE4.2 or later) Linux device (Ubuntu16 later .04LTS, Raspbian8.0 later) Android all of the Android devices (Android5.1 or later set as the Enterprise) iOS terminal (iOS11 later) macOS computer (macOS10.12 later) 2. silent installation of apps The Lumpur and silent update the business applications to push distributed to a terminal or PC, you can silent installation. It does not bother the hands of the terminal user. Not only the initial installation, you also quite useful in version-up of the application. To distribute the application to the terminal, 2 means of the "application catalog" "application package" has been ready. Display a list of apps to be installed on the app catalog app package outline terminal at the terminal. In principle, by using the supplied installation free of charge by the terminal user to tap, to package the app. This package is pushed distributed from MobiControl over server, will be a silent installation. Subject to terminal OSiOS, macOS, Android, Windows PCAndroid, Windows PC, Windows Embedded, Linux silent installation is possible cases iOS, install Android on the terminal is set to "required" designation App Store app in the monitoring mode in macOS developed in-house app in "essential" specified Android Enterprisemanaged Google Play Store app on your device General self-developed application, to "essential" terminal of wrote in the column on the specified OS is, without exception, you can silently install. In a typical MDM / EMM solution that does not a package distribution, for the Android Enterprise terminal, Confidential app also not forced to the limit published on Google Play. In addition, the terminal in the closed network that is isolated from the Internet, you do not have a means of distributing the app. Display a list of apps to be installed on the app catalog app package outline terminal at the terminal. In principle, by using the supplied installation free of charge by the terminal user to tap, to package the app. This package is pushed distributed from MobiControl over server, will be a silent installation. Subject to terminal OSiOS, macOS, Android, Windows PCAndroid, Windows PC, Windows Embedded, Linux silent installation is possible cases iOS, install Android on the terminal is set to "required" designation App Store app in the monitoring mode in macOS developed in-house app in "essential" specified Android Enterprisemanaged Google Play Store app on your device General self-developed application, to "essential" terminal of wrote in the column on the specified OS is, without exception, you can silently install. 3. Android enhancements and top class Android terminal security measures of the terminal, depending on the manufacturer, the specification is different. MobiControl is to collaborate with each manufacturer, we have to enhance the functions of the MDM / EMM. Terminal model with these features are called. Not only a "remote control" and "Silent installation" above, for example, offers the following features to Android devices. Remote configuration of VPN parameters and authentication method to access the corporate server company remote configuration of the mail account other, offers a variety of functions for the sake of efficiency and information leakage prevention of business. Be connected via USB or Bluetooth in-house PC, so as not to retrieve the internal file. Camera function and microphone function is stopped in the house. Or prohibit the WiFi connection of the weak WEP system security strength, not only WiFi by the IT department was recognized to be connected. Only not to install the company admitted app. Even pulled out a file over an encrypted SD card and USB at the terminal within the file unit, it is sent to the external e-mail attachments can not open it in the other terminal, unconnected even after a certain period of time can not be opened in the external device the terminal, a time bomb, a remove the internal files. Once stolen disconnect the network connection, such as removing the SIM card of the terminal, remote Wipe Unable. At that time, the terminal autonomously file deletion. Prohibition of smart lock (Smart Lock, in the terminal under certain conditions, work without a password can unlock) Please refer to other "". At the moment, the manufacturer and model of Android Plus terminal that can be available in Japan in the next street: -Casio IT-G400 VR100 VR700 VT500Panasonic ToughpadSONY XperiaSharp AQUOS SH-M02 Kyocera DignoUAsusHTCHuaweiLenovoLG ElectronicsNexusSamsungZebraZTE alphabetical order. However old model does not support Android Plus. In the case in Android Plus is not a model that does not support, you set in the Android Enterprise. Comparison overview of the Android Plus and Android Enterprise, please refer to the. 4. In order to support the work of the effective use of the support terminal user of iOS devices and macOS computer, for example, offers the following features. Have a look at the operation screen of the remote view terminal of the terminal screen to the console administrator, send the data file to be referred to the business application that can explain the question with respect to the operation method periodically from the server. Or, suck up data to business application is generated to the server. To the terminal, which was created with reference to AD_DS (the "" the need for add-on to the application), Exchange account is VPN that was tied to each application are set automatically (such as MS Office document) file that you prepared in the automatic start console and, content (still image, video), and after you enable the other "touch ID and pass code" can be picked up at the terminal, the contents of the iOS device is encrypted. The data file that business application is generated, can not also be opened in other apps. In addition to this, MobiControl provides the following security features. To reset (Wipe) remotely Wipe terminal side operation may require input of a password Apple ID, from the console, and without intervention of the terminal side operation, it is possible to enable remote-Wipe, geography of the terminal position console and a, and access to iCloud data backup to iCloud to be displayed to the user in the prohibition home PC, the anti-host pairing a danger to save the business files in the terminal to the home PC to the ban USB connection prevented from copying the data of the company of the PC to the terminal Te. Or, prevent the transfer of the data of the terminal to the home of the PC. The for the WiFi of the specified company designation of WiFi / SSID only connection is to not ban the Bluetooth connection 5. support a targeted attack measures each PC security measures of Windows 10 available from Microsoft HAS (Health Attestation Service), if the abnormal to the normal resistance if, MobiControl will alert Sending mail to the isolation and the corresponding PC parties. Windows10 is provided to targeted attacks, it offers a wide range of endpoint security measures. For example, I like the sealing of the password storage area to the various servers. When you create an information leakage countermeasure == WIP (Windows information protection) files are encrypted associated string to the company ID. If in MobiControl under the control of the PC, it is possible to open the file, you can share information. However, even taking out the file to the outside, can not be decoded on a PC outside the MobiControl management, it can not be opened. Zero-day attack measures == Windows Defender ATPMobiControl is, the PC of Windows 10 PRO of the management of, and distributed all at once the Defender ATP (Advanced Threat Protection), and the silent installation. The behavior sensor is installed in the PC, if you find the process of suspicious behavior, sends the specimen to a Microsoft cloud service, it will detect unknown malware. And then encrypted with the terminal anti-theft == BitLocker volume unit. MobiControl detects a PC that is not encrypted by BitLocker, you can isolate. 6. to belong to register the terminal for each group along the organizational hierarchy of the management company / organization along the organizational hierarchy of the companies / organizations. Function setting or feature limits of the terminal, and it can be managed in line with the organizational hierarchy in the distribution of apps and files. (The entire company, headquarters unit) upper layer is set at, the set value is also at a lower level will be reflected. Therefore, the setting items in the lower level will be greatly Herase. 7. when there is some abnormality or change in geofence terminal, MobiControl will automatically change the group affiliation of the terminal. In the configuration profile of the change destination of the group, for example in the terminal if it is implemented with the "camera function Stop" is, you will not be able to camera shooting. As one of the alert trigger of Android devices, there is a geo-fence (enclosure on the virtual geography). Once you have registered offices of the company as a geofence, the function restriction on the information leakage countermeasure when brought in a terminal to the office can be added to the terminal. For example, from in-house PC to disable, such as information extraction via USB cable. 8. offers a tool to create a set company designated launcher Launcher. Company designation of the application, file title, Web page, and specify place the VPN application on the screen. Home screen terminal manufacturers were prepared not to be displayed. While the work carried out smoothly, it hides the display of unwanted apps to business. Android devices and the PC is set as Windows Classic, and if the target 9. alert generation terminal of the function restriction information leakage risks and abnormal situation that lead to the failure occurs in the terminal, automatically performs the deal such as functional limitations of the terminal. And Problem by e-mail to interested parties. If not in an abnormal situation, depending on the value and IP address of the specific data in the terminal, you can move the affiliation terminal group. By the terminal group, the applied configuration profile, rules, since the detailed settings are different, the terminal, follow the set value of the destination terminal group. 10. files periodically update application of the data file of the application is generated, it regularly sucked into each terminal another folder of MobiControl server. We capture this to the internal business system. On the other hand, it will send the data files all at once in a predetermined folder of each terminal. Terminal of the app will see this. In the case of iOS devices, there are the "" to the application need to be add-on to the app. 11. Subject to the authentication by Active Directory by the companies / organizations that are terminal management use AD_DS (Active Directory Domain Service) or AD_FS (Active Directory Federation Service), you can to allow the registration of the MobiControl server terminal. In the creation of the AD_DS or AD_FS configuration profile addressed to the terminal obtained the certification, it will be able to use the macro string% ENROLLED_UPN%. The VPN and WiFi configuration profile to request e-mail as well as AD_DS authentication, from being changed to the actual UPN of the terminal user, will be distributed to the terminal. Eliminating the need for configuration profiles of creating each individual terminal. You can safely download the document and content from the download-house departmental repository server (file server) 12. In the go from the corporate repository server. A dedicated app for this (SOTI Hub), reverse proxy program is provided free of charge. Repository server platform is the WebDAV or SharePoint. And the like of the target server URL to a dedicated app on your device, you can not access If you do not set by MobiControl console administrator. The file that you (the terminal user can not set) download, or send it to other terminals, or copied to the SD card, you will not be able to print. To stay outside the company will be able to refer to the in-house files also. Description subject to terminal OS file synchronization file transmission and reception of the specified folder and the server of the specified folder of rules terminal. To transmit and receive on a scheduled basis. Intervention unnecessary of the terminal user to send and receive operation. It can be sent to the server direction from the terminal. Suitable for transmitting and receiving data to data or application app reference is generated. iOS (However, only folder under the umbrella of apps that add-on to "") Android, the push to Windows Modern, Windows Classic, Windows Embedded, Linux terminal of the specified folder. Intervention unnecessary of the terminal user. Android, Windows Modern, Windows Classic, Windows Embedded, Linux console administrator, files and content that has been uploaded as for terminal. Download, any of the terminal user. The iOS and Android in-house regular file server files, in any of the terminal user, download. As the terminal-side application, it is installed the SOTI Hub (free of charge). iOS and Android. The version and the new features MobiControl v14 ManualMobiControl versions and new features MobiControl v14.0 or later of MobiControl, to enumerate the added new features. Please refer to the version-up. Still, if there is you know with no new features, please use. In the type of terminal property is a significant increase in MobiControl v13 to limit the terminal group that can be A. list in comparison with the major new features -v13 of MobiControl v14, tab of the "OS Familiar" in the upper side tab of the console screen only, it was not able to limit the terminal group can list. "OS family" also, is one of the terminal property. Terminal property, located more than 100 kinds, and specify these terminal property, you will be able to list. A terminal group that can be displayed in a list, for example, can be limited as follows:. Only monitoring mode terminal of iOS only Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode terminal to specify the model name of the terminal only Windows 10 Enterprise Edition, specify the mobile phone company name only compatible terminal group to it, specify only compatible terminal group in its company name installed on the successful terminal group only a certain period of time of application for, the MobiControl agent version of these lists function only old terminal group only the failed terminal group to install configuration profiles only terminal groups that have not checked into MobiControl server, terminal It is called the filtering. (Figure 1) to the terminal property, its value, and enter the Run terminal filter condition to component a comparison operator. For more information about (Figure 1) The terminal filter conditions, please see the following page. Specify all of the terminals that are a plurality of terminals or display, of B. terminal list "", "", by specifying all of the terminal in which a plurality of terminal or being displayed, intervention in the terminal list, lobbying (action selection of the item) can now be. For example, to target the MobiControl agent is only the old terminal group, and encourage the update, is an example. (Figure 1), check the 〇 on the left side of the terminal to try lobbying. You can select a plurality of terminals. Then, put a check in 〇 of will appear a menu of action items works on the lower side, you can select all of the terminal screen. As of MobiControl v13, the whole terminal of the terminal group, can also be a lobbying. However, in one of the terminal groups, the terminal of many kinds of OS and configuration mode has mixed. Therefore, in the method of the outreach to all the terminals of one of the terminal groups, there was a disadvantage that also the appeal to a non-target terminal. For example, if you want to display a message on the screen of the monitor only mode terminal of iOS, and send the message to the terminal group addressed, it will also be displayed on the terminal screen of the other OS. The terminal property group to be displayed in the C. terminal list, resiliently, to the right of the terminal name of the terminal list can now be replaced, are lined with some of the terminal property values. In the example (Figure 1), "OS version", "model", is lined with terminal properties, such as "telephone number". It is called the column a combination set of these terminals property to be displayed. Type of terminal property is located more than 100 types. To pick up from these will create one of the column. The column, multiple, are prepared, you can now display and replace as appropriate. In MobiControl v13, column because there is only one set, could not be replaced resiliently. Replace the column adapted to list the terminal group at the terminal filtering as described in Section A.. (Figure 2) application of the terminal filtering the column conform to the terminal list "" Please refer to the. All of the application screen of D. iOS, please see "" we will be able to remote view in the console. MobiControl to v14.1 is, only in only SDK for apps that incorporate iOS, could not remote view. For iOS devices, you can now be remotely set to the following restrictions. In the configuration profile, you can now set the application to prohibit the start-up. To create a white list / black list of apps, and apply to the terminal. Please refer to the. In MobiControl v13, it is not possible to suppress the activation of the prohibition application, was the only function to send email alerts to the administrator. In addition to WiFi SSID that was specified in the configuration profile, from the site of SOTI the agent updates of E. Android Plus is now convenient to now be able to prohibit the Bluetooth connection is now possible to prohibit the WiFi connection, MobiControl to the server, delivery of the agent is now easy. To update the agent (3) terminal, perform the following two steps. From the site of SOTI to your MobiControl server, click, in the console to pass the agent. Then, the agent from MobiControl server to the terminal is distributed, is silent installation. Even terminal manufacturers and models of Android Plus you have deployed a multi-type, the agent for each manufacturer you can update all at once. MobiControl agent to be prepared to the server, is just fine terminal manufacturers of agent that is deployed in your company. Please refer to the. Distribution and updates of the agent plug-ins, now available in a similar procedure. Such distribution procedure, will also be included in the plug-in for Android Enterprise. Android Enterprise of the agent, but is also common to different terminal manufacturers, plug-ins are each terminal manufacturers to create your own. Please refer to the. F. If Windows Modern Bulk registration (Bulk Enrollment) Windows10 PC of the number is large, it is registered with the MobiControl as its Windows Modern, now conveniently. Create a file called provisioning package, and save it to a USB memory. The USB memory, mounted on each PC, if you open the provisioning package, you can register on the MobiControl. In e-mail attachments, even by sending a provisioning package to each PC, you can deploy. AD through the authentication by (Active Directory) account, the conventional method to be registered to MobiControl of a separate PC is possible in the future. In the registration work of the collective registration by provisioning package, authentication with AD is not required. This provisioning packages are created in and downloaded from the Windows Store "Windows Configuration Designer". Provisioning package, you create one for each terminal group of MobiControl. G. between different terminal group of the user, and shared terminal group of one terminal is different, configuration profiles, rules, advanced settings, are different, such as app. However, when the user changes in the shared terminal, move belongs automatically of the terminal to the terminal groups that are tied to groups of the terminal user, and in that setting, you will be terminal to follow. Received e-mail before the user is automatically deleted. In the case of iOS, prior to the application that has been assigned to the terminal group of users will be automatically deleted. In the case of Android Plus, data the app is generated by the user using before you can delete. OS shared can be terminal, is iOS and Android. Terminal user, in Azure AD, ID provider (such as AD_FS and OKTA), will receive certification. Even if all employees can not distribute the company payment terminal, employees, brought out a shared terminal of the company paid, you will be able to use on the go. Even in the same terminal, and different user changes, applied "application", "configuration profile" "terminal Advanced Settings", "Rules" will also change. "" "Please refer to the. H. macOS computer, Linux device, Microsoft HoloLens of remote management macOS computer, you can now collectively in the Linux device, console the various policy settings for Microsoft HoloLens. In addition, to distribute the application, you can silently install. In addition to the above, many new features have been added. Please refer to the additional new features in each of the following version. Please click to the following. Description an open state described the closed state June 18, 2019 -> September 17, MobiControl v14.4.0 -> v14.4.3 highlight among different terminals group of users, shared above the one terminal of "G. between different terminal group of users, share one terminal" Please refer to the. Transmission time of the general configuration profile can now be set. (If you send all at once, when the network congestion occurs, you can specify the transmission of the night or on weekends. ) From MobiControl management server (support end MobiControl server of Microsoft SQL Server 2008 as the DB engine of DB server), the faster the file transmission to the terminal. Therefore, the transmission of the package, is synchronous, download of library content files faster. (I gave a remodeling of transmission architecture. ) You can now set the password expiration period of the console user. Prompt for a password change is to be displayed from 2 weeks ago. It is now possible to add a bookmark to encourage action items to the terminal. Additional terminal filtering, "Apple DEP" to the terminal profile item, "Windows normal configuration certificate", the "TPM compatibility of Windows PC.". Choices of non-normal end-point extraction has increased', "As the value of the terminal profile of the terminal filtering, there are to specify a file capacity, add bytes to the value unit (conventional value units, KB, MB, TB only) Added 'Device Name' as profile assignment criteria.iOS13 new features terminal registration process of .1, in IdP displays the authentication screen by the (Identity Provider) (optional) iOS13 of the terminal registration process, has been added the option to redirect to IdP authentication screen of", 'The IdP, AD_FS (Active Directory Federation Service), Ping Identity, Okta, etc., we can provide authentication services to the mobile terminal that is outside of the corporate Firewall. It also provides SSO (Single Sign On) function. App of the domain of the specified iOS13 the app to work together, in cooperation with the server in a specific domain, if you move, you can now specify the domain name. And, to that server, you can SSO (Single Sign On). In single-app mode, the volume of complete isolation APFS can be specified in the APFS volume in the private and public (Apple File System) volume, you will be able to be divided into private and public. As a new terminal registration system in order to achieve this, "User Enrollment" system is now available. Terminal user, the Apple ID in my area, in addition, will have an Apple ID in the public area. MDM (MobiControl server), compared iOS13 terminal that has registered in the "User Enrollment" method, you will not be able to be in the following operating. What install a private app to have one of grasp unmanaged for (private) Force of application management path code based on the forced policy of Wipe6 or more digits of the passcode of conversion terminal to the target application of, in advance hardware attributes of the backup terminal of the clear private app passcode is set to (UDID, terminal serial number, IMEI, Mac address) setting change of tracing input WiFi of prohibited keyboard the following new features of the collection of iOS13 offline terminal even if not of the "Find My iPhone", "Find friends" monitoring mode terminal (geographical location of a friend), the next terminal function limitation that could be applied, from iOS13, no longer can be applied only to the monitoring mode terminal. Stop the ban iCloud Keychain Sync to synchronize with the use prohibition of stopping FaceTime camera functions "Find friends" back up the ban iCloud document of the installation of the prohibition application to register a friend to application change prohibition Game Center to ban iCloud other distribution of Android General plug-ins in conjunction with the terminal to disable AutoFill game ban Safari of use prohibition password to play conveniently Android Plus and Android Enterprise of the agent plug-ins, MobiControl server from the site of SOTI it is now possible to pass directly to the. Along with this, with respect to the target terminal group, collectively, can now be distributed or update the agent plug-ins from MobiControl server. In this case, as a target terminal group, only the installed terminal group of the non-installed and the old plug-in plug-ins, in the terminal filtering, leave the display on the terminal list. Then, to the sending of the plug-ins towards only to these terminal group. In the case of Android Plus, be different, but APK file of the plug-in, depending on the terminal manufacturers, but still can be sent all at once. Please refer to the "". From lobbying of action items to the terminal, "an update of the device plug-in" is no longer. (Instead to be selected as the "installation of the device plug-in", also possible update of the plug-in) You can now create a black list of Android PlusWiFi SSID. If via the black list SSID, After connecting to the MobiControl server, to disconnect from the server side. In launcher in operation, certified apps, will be able to maintain the state of the remains open in the foreground. To encourage entry to the Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode terminal, with additional Panasonic-made Android terminal data collection rules "use prohibition of the microphone function," "unlocking impossible in pass code" to the additional lost terminal measures the terminal function limitation, You can now collect the following information:. The battery part number battery manufacturing date battery health percent work of the action items to the battery charging times macOS terminal, sending Bash of adding the following three items scripts, Perl, by sending a script written in JavaScript or Python, of macOS setting items of the Linux configuration profile that automatically VPN also launches the field of functional settings specify additional apps the "VPN of each application" to the setting item of the update configuration profiles of shut down (power off) MDM profile spread significantly to start on the basis of the following to add the terminal certificate of distribution task scheduler terminal is scheduled, it will automatically run the script. Linux script is also subject. Schedule. You can choose from such as a specific time interval of time or a specific day of the week. Browser SOTI Surf of the terminal in the SOTI Surf outside the company, to the gateway server to log in to the house of the server, use the ERG (Enterprise Resource Gateway) of SOTI. And the ERG, between the MobiControl server, it is now possible to via a proxy server of the third party. The type of the repository server SOTI HubSOTI Hub is accessible, in which add Nextcloud content management service, the type of the repository server that SOTI Hub can access, the seven. WebDAVSharepoint (on-premises) SharePoint Online (Office365) OneDriveOneDrive for BusinessBOXNextcloud content management service 2019 February 25 -> June 10 MobiControl v14.3.0 -> v14.3.4 highlight a plurality of terminals of the terminal list or displayed, specify all of the terminal you are, you will be able to encourage (selection of action items). "Specify all of the terminal in which a plurality of terminal or being displayed, of B. terminal list, encourage" above please refer to the. And general configuration profile, package management screen of the management screen of both to become the new GUI, can now be Export to CSV file. You can now specify the installation time zone at the terminal of the configuration profile. (Installed in order to avoid in work hours) (installed at the terminal of the package, were enabled set the start time zone from earlier) to the assignment pop-up to the terminal group of the configuration profile, YY stand in the XX platform is to target (even in the same terminal group, different because there may be a terminal group of the terminal OS) display to the effect that becomes the case was continued for version-up of configuration profiles and packages, past versions of some packages that were uploaded to the MobiControl server can be viewed content (.pcg the file), is now available for download to the console. As the ID provider, in addition to the conventional AD_FS (Active Directory Federation Service), at the time of registration of the Azure AD and third-party ID provider (such as Okta) to support iOS and Android MobiControl, the authentication by Azure AD and other ID provider it is now possible to. Note 1: ID provider server that MobiControl supports must be in conjunction with the AD_DS (Active Directory Domain Service) Note 2: Until MobiControl v14.2, only Windows Modern is, has been able to be authenticated by Azure AD was in the terminal profile at the time of the terminal filtering, add the name of the group of Azure AD or other ID provider. For example, now you can display only the terminal group that belongs to a group of designated Azure AD to the terminal list. In TLS certificate encrypted communication with the terminal, the deployment server or management server uses up support now block length of 1024 bits SHA2 (DB), be removed from the system, allows the console operation directly below. (Deletion of the server), however, of the active server deletion is impossible. iOSDEP registered terminal, prohibits the automatic input of the operation non-configured profile of forced password restrictions in the additional time synchronization the following items of the terminal function to be registered in the MobiControl (disable automatic input from the cache) password shared (the same with a password shared) app catalog rules created on the prohibition VPP B2B app in other iOS devices Apple ID, in the creation of the improvement app catalog rule the search function, enter the build number of enterprise application, allows manage it directly below. In SOTI Hub screen remote view Android General console in the console, click the terminal name that now available a debug log of the terminal -> Open the "Event Log" tab. -> click on the button "download the log.". I received a check of Google\'s terminal of the integration by the SafetyNet (whether specifically are the root dash), the pop-up of the results in the expansion in the alert rule "send the script", sent directly to the "terminal is the root ( MobiControl agent) "and you can now select either" Google\'s push communication services (APNS or FCM) ". MobiControl to v14.2 is, to send over the Google\'s push communication services, was only to select the "Send the script (platform)" as an action item. Add terminal "Task Scheduler" to the setting item of the configuration profile is based on a script to schedule, and automatic execution. Schedule, you can choose from, such as a specific time interval of time or a specific day of the week. If you leave launch a connect -f script, and the scheduled time, you have a connection from the terminal side to MobiControl server. The APK files of Android Plus agent, it is now possible to directly transfer from the site of SOTI to MobiControl server. As a result, the terminal to be registered, and access to the MobiControl server in Chrome, download the APK file of the agent from MobiControl server, and the registration as it is. In this way, you can register the Android Plus to MobiControl also a closed network that is isolated from the Internet. Because you do not have access to SOTI of the site for the agent downloads from the terminal. For more information, please refer to the following. Of the "6. Agent software download source" in the section "" to "1. agent download source of MobiControl server" v14.2, the registration of in this way, did is not practical. The reason for this is the agent of the latest version of device manufacturers that want to download, because the work to be stored in MobiControl server was troublesome. Console side work on the update of the agent of the terminal is now conveniently. List only the old version of the terminal group, whereas only need to select the "Update Agent". Also terminal that has set as Android EnterpriseAndroid Enterprise Profile Owner Mode, can now be silent install send a package. (Android Plus and on the Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode, previously from possible) to set the Google ID after the reset (factory reset prevention) terminal, leave in association string a Google account as a company. In Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode, you can operate the terminal without having to set up a Google account. In that case, there is a danger of being reset the terminal even without the input of the Google account by finder. To prevent such a danger. Terminal user, delete their Google account, even if the terminal reset (back to the factory default state), you can not unlock If you do not enter a Google account as a company. Normally, if the reset delete the Google account of the terminal user, the finder will become the owner of the terminal', "The limitations of the terminal function, and to unlock the item additional always on terminal VPN, and connect only to the company's server with only the specified VPN", 'Thus, even in a terminal equipped with a normal SIM card, in fact, it will be the same as the operation in a closed network. Prohibited the creation of the account that brute string to the account of creating prohibition terminal. And create ban only to Google account, all of the account (for example: Facebook account) You can now select either of the prohibition of. Of system UI ban Toasts, Phone Activities, Priority Phone Activities, System Alerts, to Google Play protect that be connected to an external storage device does not mount, such as file exchange prohibition SD card and the display ban USB memory of the System Errors and System Overlays, app is not a verification of whether or not malware. (The installation by false positives may be prohibited) admit case where you can select the strengthening of the complexity of the path code of the string because of the complexity of strengthening unlocking the pass code, lowercase letters, digits, the fingerprint authentication, etc. in setting of whether or not Windows ModernWindows 10 version 1903 (May 2019 Update) registration process of support macOSmacOS computer, download the agent can now be at the same time. App catalog rules, you will be able to distribute the application of the extension .app and .dmg. The application of the alert rule is now available. To encourage to macOS computer, the action item of "soft reset" to add a configuration profile add the following configuration item. As a result, you can now remotely configure many of the items in the "System Preferences" of macOS computer from the console. "Security and Privacy" (encryption of HDD / SSD) set FinderFileVault of "General" and "Purabashi" firewall Parental Control (the use time limit, etc.) Energy Conservation (time for the computer to sleep setting) Time Machine server (data specify the user\'s backup) printer settings login screen (login can AD_DS or Open Directory. Adding Linux browser a VPN to F5 companies VPN to set remote configuration for the specified screen saver to the specified kernel extensions apps and plug-in configuration of one, etc.) Dock of the display XSAN displays the login name software update server extensions from the network also a way to enter the URL for registration in, now can be registered Linux device. In outreach to the terminal, in the next two action items the additional current OS version is the remote control of the update screen of the latest whether or not the scan OS, is now also possible to access the "SSH terminal" of the device. A normal Linux devices, but it does not have a GUI, in the SSH terminal, GUI display. Reflect also this to the console. Added "Zebra RFID Linux" and "black list Apps" in the configuration profile to add distribution. MobiControl v14.2 to have been supported, in addition to the Ubuntu and Raspbian, Zebra RFID Linux is, in SOTI Surf console, which became the distribution of the target, was now possible to set the default value of SOTI Surf. The file that you downloaded in SOTI Surf it is now possible to open a third-party apps. SOTI Surf of the HTML file can now be printed. Can now be set in the console the default value of the UI improvement zoom level of SOTI Surf editor. To SOTI Hub can access the repository server is now possible to document the creation of an additional SOTI Hub the BOX cloud. (Word processing document, spreadsheet, create a presentation file, the repository server or, now can be saved to the local terminal. Data leakage protection (copy, paste, print, etc.) policies are stored in the local terminal. November 1, 2018 -> 2019 March 21, 2008 MobiControl v14.2.0 -> the v14.2.4 highlight all of the application screen of iOS, now allow for remote view in the Console. It is possible to mirror the operation screen of the terminal to the console. Please refer to the "". By importing a CSV file for belonging to the terminal group of (up to MobiControl v14.1, the only application that incorporates the SDK for iOS is remote view was possible) General terminal, to be capable of re-arrangement of belonging to the terminal group became. And the terminal list of the console (useful for relocation to the terminal groups of automatic DEP registered terminal) to a CSV type file, it can now be performed up to attach automatically to the mail. A DB engine can be installed in MobiControl Management Server (DB server), the additional terminal filtering device properties Microsoft SQL Server 2017, effective in a system for parallel additional plurality of MobiControl deployment server MobiControl deployment server. It is terminal listed by the deployment server to which the terminal belongs. It is further various property values \u200b\u200bdifferent terminal list at the terminal of the deployment server when connecting the terminal filter condition. To console the authority of the authorization field, you can appoint a console administrators who do not have a console administrator and authority with the authority to send additional authority to send the script to the terminal script. In MobiControl server of the newly introduced, not to archive the system log is now the default. The setting of the central function, also possible to carry out the archive. The macro string% AUTONUM%, now allow more the number of digits by prefixing a 0 any number of. When the license expiration of MobiControl approaches now the alarm message is displayed. To the accessible computer to add macOS computer MobiControl v14.1 is, can access the self-service portal, Windows computer, iOS, or MobiControl server and the ID provider was only from Android devices (such as AD_FS arbor and OKTA) and You can now a third-party certificate to the SSL certificate of communication between the. The event log ExportMobiControl server to a Syslog server is to collect, can now be sent to the following three types of Syslog server that your company is using. Linux RsyslogSplunkKiwiiOS2 Bluetooth of the use prohibition first stage of the stage: the terminal in the advanced settings, switching of the use prohibition / available tentatively possible. However, the terminal side is "setting", the opposite configuration is possible second stage of the switch: the restriction of the terminal functional configuration profiles, permanent set of the use prohibition / available. In the "Settings" by the terminal user, now reverse setting is impossible. App Store app is now available for the following selection in the corresponding at the time of the version-up. On the terminal side of the automatic bar Joan up console, when you press the "push app update" button, please refer to the section "version-up of 8. App Store application" of the version up on the terminal side. To encourage respect to the terminal, in the "Settings" screen of the non-display terminal restriction item add the "Control Center" additional MDM profile the following action items to the function limitation of terminal sounding the update sound, when you tap the "Control Center", usually the "control Center" is "managed" app under the umbrella of the file to be displayed, non- "managed" prohibit the writing by application non- "managed" app, prohibited to open a "managed" app mobile phone company prohibited Android General launcher to change the mobile communication plan with, also can delete an app that had been registered in the app catalog for additional Android EnterpriseAndroid Enterprise the APN to the setting item of the configuration profile can now be set to single-app mode , can be the appropriate application even managed Google Play is to remove (non-approved) Now cormorants. Launcher settings while driving is now possible. (In Android Plus, possible from MobiControl v13) is now possible to ban the smart lock function. In the configuration profile for WiFi, now you can also set the WiFi proxy. Time synchronization is now possible. However, the need to install the plug-in agent. (In Android Plus, time synchronization is possible from MobiControl v11) to the setting item of additional Windows Modern configuration profile the "charging" to the terminal profile which can display, add hemp India access. It can be started only a single application When you start the PC. It relates initialization from a Windows PC remote that can display in the console health configuration certificate (from 1607 1809) RedStone version of Windows10, early to save initialization provisioning data to save the next 3 selection data console of the "chat function" and "browsing function macOS of side file" is the geographical position of the additional macOS computer in a remote view of the initial application screen provides start app catalog rules to macOS computer of MobiControl agent for reduction Protected WipeMacOSmacOS the setting item of the grasp configuration profile, in lobbying the terminal to the registration directory server of the proxy profile you want to add / remove the application of the registration font of adding the following accessibility managed domain (AD_DS or Open directory) to string pickled macOS computer, the next the action item with additional terminal list, new With respect to the screen message display updates of the new OS version of the mark display macOS computer terminal you have not updated to OS version, now you can select the following. The setting item of implementing Linux configuration profile when you press the "Update OS" in the updated implementation console soon, the "application of the black list / white list" and "non-connected terminal measures" to add terminal Advanced Settings, "connection You can now set the time zone. ". Transmission of MobiControl of the script is now able to send the packages now available. Application to Linux device of the silent installation of the application "included information of the terminal" is now available. Register the Microsoft HoloLensMicrosoft HoloLens to MobiControl, various remote configuration can now be. To improve bookmark creation of limited start-up of additional privacy settings configuration of the application setting item you want to allow to SOTI Surf terminal user, the access history up to now in the Web clip function of the deleted iOS, in the browser to open a Web page, rather than Safari, SOTI You can now specify the Surf. In Android devices, the internal documents that were obtained automatic dialing when you tap the phone number at the start SOTI HubSOTI Hub, to be attached copy or paste, now console administrator can allow or deny. January 31, 2018 -> September 4 MobiControl v14.1.0 -> v14.1.8 case of simple search part of the terminal properties of the terminal filtering function of the General terminal list, to specify the type of terminal property without, entering only that value, it can be filtered terminal group. For example, the telephone number of the terminal, model name, is now available only in the filtering input, such as SSID name. For more details, please see "". Now a complete deletion can be selected from MobiControl database of data of the deleted terminal from the console of the terminal list. Corresponding to GDPR (EU general data protection rules). History deletion of BYOD terminal of retirees. In MobiControl v13, v13.4.0 MR6 or later, in MobiControl v14, if the subsequent v14.1.3 of the newly introduced, completely removed by default. If it upgrade from a previous version, select out whether you want to completely remove. Add the Symantec to the terminal certificate issuing authority. The certificate issuing authority that can be distributed is MobiControl is, three companies of the following. AD_CS in (Microsoft Active Directory Certificate Service) EntrustSymanteciOS application white list / black list function start prohibition specified terminal capabilities an app that can limit, 13 additional item (no access to the WiFi SSID other than the company designation is also included) to the terminal to encourage item, add Bluetooth ban the "restart" and "shut down" is now available. Outreach to Android General terminal, as an action item, add the "Script transmission (platform)"', "Scripts and messages to be sent to the terminal, and use Google's push communication services, now send to off-line terminal", 'If there is an update of the app on (although it was possible to v13, impossible was was in v14.0) Android EnterpriseGoogle Play, "automatic updates of the terminal" or, select either "Updating with console operations." now possible. The (was possible in v13.4, but impossible was was in v14.0) "Settings Manager" application, it can now be installed on Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode. Note 1: Remove the "Settings" at the time of the terminal shipping, by changing to the "terminal manager", Note 2 can narrow the range of change in the terminal set by the terminal user: The Android Plus, it has been deleted from the available MobiControl from v13 terminal, again, you can choose one of the following when registering. (When you start a particular application, specify the VPN is the automatic start-up) VPN function of each app "registered as a new terminal at the new terminal ID input" or "re-registered under the same registration ID as before," the administrator password of the launcher It is now available complexity of the set. You can now forbidden to register multiple Google accounts in the same terminal. However, in the Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode only Android Enterprise Device Owner Mode launcher mode, it can now be display prohibition of the status bar. , (In Android Plus, applicable from v13) to display a terminal capable of property, the input of incorrect unlock passcode add a certain number of times as "VPN is currently connected" and "Android security patch level", the subject of the alert Add VPN SOTI Hub can be accessed in-house repository server to the additional macOSmacOS computer setting target manufacturers to F5 VPN can now be registered in the MobiControl management of, add the following SharePoint Online, in OneDriveOneDrive for BusinessSOTI Hub, Word, Excel , in to be able to SOTI Hub editing of PowerPoint, to be able to be given a highlight in pdf file November 28, 2017 -> December 12, MobiControl v14.0.1 -> list in v14.0.2 highlight console type of terminal property to limit the terminal group that can be displayed has been increased significantly. The above-described, "A. Kinds of terminal property to limit the terminal group that can display list significantly increase" Please refer to the. The terminal property group to be displayed on the terminal list, resiliently, can now be replaced. Described above, please refer to the "C. The terminal property group to be displayed on the terminal list, resiliently, it was able to be replaced.". Even if the update management Apple\'s graphical display iOSiOS the composition ratio of the number of terminals based on the display the terminal property values \u200b\u200bannounced the update of the OS, to immediately, without even an update of the terminal, the longest of them hold (pending institutions 90 day) by selecting the action items of the "OS update" in the lobbying of the console, we will be able to force update the OS on your iOS device. Please refer to the "". Applied to the terminal of the white list / black list of Android Enterprise app is now available. Start-up can you can limit the application. If the bulk registration (Bulk Enrollment) Windows10 PC of the number of Windows Modern is large, it is registered with the MobiControl as its Windows Modern, now conveniently. Create a file called provisioning package, and save it to a USB memory. The USB memory, mounted on each PC, if you open the provisioning package, you can register on the MobiControl. In e-mail attachments, even by sending a provisioning package to each PC, you can deploy. AD through the authentication by (Active Directory) account, the conventional method to be registered to MobiControl of a separate PC is possible in the future. In the registration work of the collective registration by provisioning package, authentication with AD is not required. This provisioning packages are created in and downloaded from the Windows Store "Windows Configuration Designer". Provisioning package, you create one for each terminal group of MobiControl. Support start Linux device of Linux device registered with a MobiControl, you will be able to various remote management of. Distribution of support is the Ubuntu and Raspbian. Please refer to the "". In older versions of Windows Embedded support end MobiControl v14, Windows Embedded CE6.0 previous versions of the terminal is no longer registered. In MobiControl v14, the encrypted communication protocol between the server and the terminal, now supports only TLS1.2 by SHA-2. These older versions, which is why that does not support the TLS1.2 no longer be registered. Windows Embedded Compact7 or later, because it can communicate by TLS1.2, supports even MobiControl v14. Please refer to the "". This page is a, is a document that Japanese translation. Was solved for each version, the contents of the Bug Fix, please refer to the. Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. Constructed in the WordPress (Figure 2) application of the terminal filtering the column conform to the terminal list (Figure 3) of the terminal to update the agent, perform the following two steps. From the site of SOTI to your MobiControl server, click, in the console to pass the agent. Then, the agent from MobiControl server to the terminal is distributed, is silent installation. Even terminal manufacturers and models of Android Plus you have deployed a multi-type, the agent for each manufacturer you can update all at once. MobiControl agent to be prepared to the server, is just fine terminal manufacturers of agent that is deployed in your company. Please refer to the. Even in the same terminal, and different user changes, applied "application", "configuration profile" "terminal Advanced Settings", "Rules" will also change. Please click to the following. The closed state of the state explained that opened the state description closed state description open the Description
