You can set this title from customizer. You can set this subtitle from customizer. Setting order MobiControl of setting order MobiControl of MobiControl is done in the following order:. 1.. Creating Required any of the connection profile of the following in the case of all of the terminal OS the target premises MobiControl server if only the setting matters iOS devices or macOS computer required to AD_DS between the (Active Directory Domain Service) server, AD_FS in between the (Active Directory Federation Service), between the Azure AD, essential if you want to manage the Windows10 as Windows Modern. The one of the company payment terminal (iOS Android), if you shared by a plurality of employees, mandatory', "2.Apple, Google, or for the purpose of obtaining the following Microsoft administrator for the account of, Apple's site the application of managed Google Play to purchase out of the app from the App Store to set out the authority Apple products that you can sign in to the app catalog If you want to distribute using is, it must be one of the two account of the following", 'However, if you want to set your Android device in the mode of Android Plus, the above account is not required. Use the WNS, when to remotely manage a Windows10 PC 3. along the organization of companies and organizations, hierarchically (input is the main work of the organization name) the terminal group created all of the terminal OS is subject 4. terminal registration the main purpose of to register the rules of creation terminal to a predetermined terminal group is a terminal registration rules. There is a setting options such as the type of authentication and the terminal name of the terminal user. For one of the terminal groups, it can be set of the plurality of terminal registration rules. All of the terminal OS is subject. By the terminal OS, how to create different. 5. Setting on the behavior of the terminal. You could even be changing the setting order of the following items. Configuration profile of creating information leak prevention, WiFi, VPN, e-mail, such as setting all of the terminal OS is targeting all of the terminal OS of the "Advanced" is other than the target terminal registration rules rules of the (application catalog rules, etc.) to create all "behavior set of terminal" of all of the terminal OS the target document terminal OS is with the exception of distribution and installation Apple products to the target application terminal, image, distributed iOS devices and Android devices to the terminal, such as a video of Section 6.5 subject even if you do not have all of the is completed, the registration of the terminal is possible. In addition, after the registration of the terminal, you can add any of the five terms, it can also be changed. All of the terminal OS is the target terminal OS-specific setting method, it will appear menu with the description page by clicking the "Setting" on the left index. It is to set the field of the terminal there is a "Advanced" and "rules" and "configuration profile". For more information, please refer to the. When you create a summary terminal registration rules of registration to the terminal MobiControl server, the "registration ID", "URL for registration" will be generated. By entering the "registration URL" to the browser, the terminal is registered to a predetermined terminal group. In addition, depending on the terminal OS, download MobiControl agent software, also by entering the "registration ID" to this, the terminal is registered to a predetermined terminal group. In the console, you may want to the generation of agent. This time, will also be produced at the same time Setup.INI file. Place the Setup.INI file in the same folder as the agent installer, installing the agent, it will be registered in a predetermined terminal group. By the "registration ID", "URL for registration" or "Setup.INI" file, the terminal, to know the URL of MobiControl the deployment server, and then the available access. Subsequently, the "registration ID", to uniquely corresponding terminal registration rules to the "URL for registration" or "Setup.INI" file, you declare the attribute information, such as its own terminal serial number. For one of the terminal registration rules, registration destination to become "terminal group" of the terminal is one. Terminal registration rules, the attribute information of the terminal, which has been the access, and save it in the folder of "terminal group" given of MobiControl management server. Now, registration of the terminal is complete. With respect to the registration of the terminal, click the "setup and operation of the terminal" of the left index, please refer to the page description. In the following cases, you need to initialize the terminal. By default at the OS level, it will be managed MobiControl. In the case of the following If you want to set your Android device if you want to your iOS device, as, it is required to receive the certification of AD_DS or AD_FS. The Windows 10PC, as Google administrator account If you want to set as the Windows Modern, if you use the managed Google account (On the other hand, if you use a managed GooglePlay account, the authentication of AD_DS or AD_FS is not required. ) Data and to the sending mobile device and the PC of content, you need to send the data and content. In addition, there is also a desire to obtain an in-house content in the operation of the mobile device side. In MobiControl, "File Synchronization Rules", "content library", offers a "intranet gateway". File synchronization rules operation method exchanged between specific folder of the terminal and the server. It is automatically transmitted and received on the basis of the schedule. In the case of iOS, data for which to generate the data or terminal application terminal application is used. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. Any of which content to download or the terminal user. With the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is necessary to upload in advance library. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. In-house file server (repository server), to download and access from the terminal. Without being aware of the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is sufficient to save it to a file server. The specification of as a file server, WebDAV or SharePoint. Can be specified folder under the umbrella of apps that add-on the iOS as a download destination target AndroidWindows system any folder. There is a need to distribute the business application to distribute mobile terminal or a PC app that does not matter the format of the content. As a distribution means of the application, MobiControl is, offers the app catalog and MobiControl package. When you open the app catalog at the terminal, you will see the name and icon of some of the app. These include a link to download the original app Yes stretched. Terminal users, the download / install Select the app. MobiControl package, using, to package the app. In addition to the app installer, you can insert a script command. As a result, the application will allow silent installation. In addition, before and after the installation, you can perform the required operation. For example, you can perform the installation of the previous version of the same app uninstall. On the terminal screen after the installation is complete, you can display a message to that effect. In addition to public application, developed in-house, you can also distribute the app as long as the house. In the table below, and the public application, App Store, Google Play Store, or refers to the application of the Windows Store is the download source. App catalog MobiControl package published application in-house as long as the app download source in the table on the corporate server iOSAndroid PlusAndroid EnterpriseWindows PCWindows EmbeddedLinux, if the background color is yellow, you can silent installation. In the silent installation, it will be downloaded and installed without terminal user operation. It is useful for rapid deployment and version-up of the business application. Silent installation on a Notes application catalog, you must have the application distribution option to "essential". Silent installation on iOS public app, the terminal is monitoring mode, it is when the app is a device type of VPP contract with the App Store. It addressed to Android Enterprise, the application as long as the company, in the managed Google Play Store, it is possible to upload. This is using the app catalog, and distribute. In this case, you must have the consideration to limit the distribution destination in-house. Set of option settings following server is not required, and the setting, it spreads the availability of MobiControl. Gateway for accessing the Intranet inside of the repository server (WebDAV or SharePoint server) from outside', "To apply his terminal status to iOS devices and Android terminal, the terminal user's own, other than the target terminal smartphone, tablet, can be viewed on a PC", 'Such as a terminal to the lost mode, you can remote control. The server is MobiControl server itself. The console authority, is the ability to refer to the terminal user. To prevent illegal access to the MS Exchange server. Target terminal, iOS terminals, is the Android devices and Windows Embedded terminal. As reference information, also, please refer. Copyright © 2010 -2019 / Translated by Penetrate of Limits Co., Ltd. (Tokyo) © 2019 MobiControl v14 Manual. Setting order 1 of construction MobiControl in the WordPress.. Creating Required any of the connection profile of the following in the case of all of the terminal OS the target premises MobiControl server if only the setting matters iOS devices or macOS computer required to AD_DS between the (Active Directory Domain Service) server, AD_FS in between the (Active Directory Federation Service), between the Azure AD, essential if you want to manage the Windows10 as Windows Modern. The one of the company payment terminal (iOS Android), if you shared by a plurality of employees, mandatory', "2.Apple, Google, or for the purpose of obtaining the following Microsoft administrator for the account of, Apple's site the application of managed Google Play to purchase out of the app from the App Store to set out the authority Apple products that you can sign in to the app catalog If you want to distribute using is, it must be one of the two account of the following", 'However, if you want to set your Android device in the mode of Android Plus, the above account is not required. Use the WNS, when to remotely manage a Windows10 PC 3. along the organization of companies and organizations, hierarchically (input is the main work of the organization name) the terminal group created all of the terminal OS is subject 4. terminal registration the main purpose of to register the rules of creation terminal to a predetermined terminal group is a terminal registration rules. There is a setting options such as the type of authentication and the terminal name of the terminal user. For one of the terminal groups, it can be set of the plurality of terminal registration rules. All of the terminal OS is subject. By the terminal OS, how to create different. 5. Setting on the behavior of the terminal. You could even be changing the setting order of the following items. Configuration profile of creating information leak prevention, WiFi, VPN, e-mail, such as setting all of the terminal OS is targeting all of the terminal OS of the "Advanced" is other than the target terminal registration rules rules of the (application catalog rules, etc.) to create all "behavior set of terminal" of all of the terminal OS the target document terminal OS is with the exception of distribution and installation Apple products to the target application terminal, image, distributed iOS devices and Android devices to the terminal, such as a video of Section 6.5 subject even if you do not have all of the is completed, the registration of the terminal is possible. In addition, after the registration of the terminal, you can add any of the five terms, it can also be changed. All of the terminal OS is the target terminal OS-specific setting method, it will appear menu with the description page by clicking the "Setting" on the left index. It is to set the field of the terminal there is a "Advanced" and "rules" and "configuration profile". For more information, please refer to the. Overview of registration to the terminal MobiControl server of "registration ID", by the "registration URL" or "Setup.INI" file, the terminal, to know the URL of MobiControl the deployment server, and then the available access. Subsequently, the "registration ID", to uniquely corresponding terminal registration rules to the "URL for registration" or "Setup.INI" file, you declare the attribute information, such as its own terminal serial number. For one of the terminal registration rules, registration destination to become "terminal group" of the terminal is one. Terminal registration rules, the attribute information of the terminal, which has been the access, and save it in the folder of "terminal group" given of MobiControl management server. Now, registration of the terminal is complete. With respect to the registration of the terminal, click the "setup and operation of the terminal" of the left index, please refer to the page description. Delivery of data and content file synchronization rules operation method exchanged between specific folder of the terminal and the server. It is automatically transmitted and received on the basis of the schedule. In the case of iOS, data for which to generate the data or terminal application terminal application is used. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. Any of which content to download or the terminal user. With the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is necessary to upload in advance library. Documents, photos, and content such as videos subject. In-house file server (repository server), to download and access from the terminal. Without being aware of the intention of as a mobile terminal, the content, it is sufficient to save it to a file server. The specification of as a file server, WebDAV or SharePoint. Can be specified folder under the umbrella of apps that add-on the iOS as a download destination target AndroidWindows system any folder. Format a matter not application of distributed application catalog MobiControl package published application in-house as long as the app download source of the content is set in-house server iOSAndroid PlusAndroid EnterpriseWindows PCWindows EmbeddedLinux options.
